While people in most parts of the world remain in their homes due to the COVID-19 pandemic, people who want to make the best out of this lockdown have become a course at Fêrgeha Kurdî.
​​Kurds and Armenians lived together in the village of Hacıkaş.
The village was burnt down three times by the Turkish state.
The Turkish state slaughtered a high number of Hacıkaş villagers in the 1930's, while many people were exiled in the massacre of Zilan.
After the massacre, the village was completely vacated.
One of these buildings was the Haj Church, the historic Armenian Church.
At that time the name of the village was Kaş.
According to some villagers, this church was built on the site of a 3 thousand years old temple of the Urartu period.
The Kurdish Culture Week started with a march from Brouckere to Espagne squares.
The 6th edition of the Kurdish Culture Week has begun in Brussels.
The event area in Espagne square included replicas of historical buildings in Kurdistan, a stand where Kurdish culture and cousine can be tasted, a stage for concerts, book stands.
Your presence alone is a victory.
The very act of refusing oppression is a victory.
Fighting is a victory.
All they have killed is our fear.
With each sister who was captured, a warrior was born.
These poetic words continue, but they are not from any poem. These are from the Girls of the Sun film.
The Girls of the Sun film is about the Kurdish women’s fight against ISIS gangs.
“Girls of the Sun” is among the 21 films running for the Golden Palm in the 71st International Film Festival, and was screened on Saturday for curious audiences.
The film is about Kurdish women fighting ISIS, and is 115 minutes long.
Director Eva Husson reflects these concepts through an Êzidî woman, Bahar, who was captured by ISIS and achieved freedom later on.
Kurdish women’s victory
The film focuses on the ISIS attack against ISIS, the massacre, the capture of women and the victory of women who fought them.
WAR, DEATH AND PANIC
The main character in the film, Bahar.
It is played by exiled Iranian actress Golshifteh Farahani, who is known for her roles in Bahman Ghobadi films.
The film opens with French journalist Mathilde arriving in the Shengal mountains with a helicopter. The journalist is received by the fighter women.
The dialogue suggests that the journalist has been in Kobanê before, and knows some of the women from there.
We witness Mathilde and Bahar’s encounter as the film continues in an atmosphere of war, death and panic as Kurdish fighter women are trying to save the villages and towns from ISIS.
Pain, loss and a passion for freedom
Bahar has an image of the harsh, angry and disciplined fighter.
What they have in common is that they are both women, and mothers.
This brings them closer.
Bahar is a fighter woman who studied in France, and who lost her husband in the ISIS attack during her visit to her family in Shengal, was captured along with her son, was raped, but later managed to get her freedom.
Mathilde is a war correspondent journalist.
She lost her husband who had the same job in another war, and is worried for her child who is alone in France.
Their losses and searches are added to their womanhood and motherhood, and they have similar pains.
FIGHTING THE MALE MIND
The film Girls of the Sun doesn’t only analyze women’s fight against ISIS, it also stresses the fighting character of the women in Shengal.
It points out that some male fighter groups didn’t participate in the joint struggle in Shengal.
The women under Bahar’s command fight both ISIS, and this mentality.
The film brings to the light both the figting, resisting side of Kurdish women and their emotional, delicate and humane sides.
Songs in the Sorani dialect and dances reference the daily lives of Kurdish guerillas.
The film shows attempts to rescue the enslaved women and the conditions of women who were sold off, and gives credit to the positive role some imams played in the rescue.
GIRLS OF THE SUN IS A WOMEN’S FILM
The film ends with the Kurdish fighter women using tunnels to raid the headquarters of ISIS members.
While Mathilde is wounded in a Coalition bombing during clashes in the city.
Lead actresses Golshifteh Farahani and Emmanuelle Bercot are accompanied by Êzidî actress Zübeyde Bulut in the role of Lamia.
It looks like it will take home some awards from the festival.
Awazê Çiya music band composed of guerrillas has released a new song called “From mountains to seas”.
Among 200 countries, Iran is one of the few in which reading and learning in mother language is prohibited.
“Among 200 countries, Iran is one of the few in which reading and learning in mother language is prohibited,” the statement said.
It was also pointed out that “Imposing a system of formal reading and learning into a single language is an obvious act of killing languages that undermines the social status of other languages of the peoples of Iran.”
“Killing a mother tongue is the same as racism and ethnic cleansing.
A society that imposes only one language over other languages is a racist society.
There is no difference between imposing a race on other races or a language or a religion or an ideology.
They are all racism (Dr. Mohsen Renani, 2016).
Among 200 countries, Iran is one of the few in which reading and learning in mother language is prohibited.
It is clear that ignoring linguistic and national differences and imposing the language and literature of a nation is the service of the failed domination project.
This project only considers one language and does not recognize the language of millions of people in a large country like Iran.
Kurdish, Turkish, Arabic, Baluchi and Turkmen languages, like the native language of nations in Iran, represent the different culture and personality of these nations, as well as reflecting their thoughts, beliefs, and values transmitted from generation to another.
Therefore, the imposition of a system of teaching and reading in just one language is an obvious execution of languages, which undermines the social status of other languages in Iran.
Each year February 21 is a reminder of the mother language.
In 1999, the UNESCO announced in a clear step with an official offer from Bangladesh for February 21 to be titled as the International Mother Language Day.
The UNESCO also proposed a multi-lingual curriculum for countries that include several languages and different nations.
As the civil organizations in Marivan, we believe that recognition of different languages and the creation of multilingual education system in society would not be in conflict with preserving the country's sovereignty and maintaining a link between the Iranian peoples.
On the contrary, depriving people of their education and learning of their mother tongue and violation of individual rights leads to destruction and division.
As the civil society organizations in Marivan, the true representative of the culture and community of this land, we are keen to establish a multilingual curriculum in Iran; teaching and reading Kurdish in all schools in the Kurdish regions of Iran, from kindergartens to the final stages of studying.
We consider it essential and we do not want this linguistic extermination policy and violation of our cultural and social rights to be continued.
Marivan Literary Society
Vejîn Art and Cultural Association
Ronan Scientific and Cultural Center
Jiyanewe Popular Union for Combating Drugs
Green Chia Society
Rocyar Cultural Literary Community
Marivan Theatre Union
Religious Teachers Union in Hewraman
Marivan School Teachers Union
Jîn Health Club
The film Ji Bo Azadiyê (The end will be spectacular) about the resistance of Sur was screened at Mihemed Şêxo Culture and Art Center in Qamishlo.
Rojava Film Commune is organising special screening of the film ‘Ji Bo Azadiyê'.
Directed by Ersin Çelik, the film was shot in Kobanê.
150 publishers are participating in the fair with tens of thousands of books, but municipal officials have banned the promotion and sale of books in Kurdish.
A Kurdish language course has been started for children in the Russian city of Krasnodar.
Kurdish families have shown a great interest in this language course opened under the lead of the Kurdish Cultural Autonomy in Krasnodar.
Despite his old age, İşxan Ankosi says he has voluntarily joined the program in order to save the Kurdish children from assimilation and to help them serve their people in their own language.
Ankosi remarked that people had more interest in such activities in Russia before, adding; “Twenty years ago, when our people migrated here, we had serious concerns about the future of our language and culture.”
Speaking on the importance of mother language, Ankosi said: Societies continue their existence with their languages.
Even it might be late, we intend to do this work and promote similar activities.
We hope that our people will support us in the program.
Ankosi noted that along with the Kurdish language courses, the students will learn about the history of the Kurdish language and Kurdish culture.
Tilmanê Kaçax and Bekirê Kaçax are two Kurdish brothers who have voluntarily taken responsibility of the funding for the Kurdish course.
We read our first poem and voiced our first beautiful saying in Kurdish.
‘Need for support to the project.
Nûrê Aşîrî, one of the teachers in the course, said: In order to continue our cultural and linguistic activities, we will need the support of our people.
Without their support, it would be impossible to succeed in such efforts.
The YPG Press and Liaison Center issued a written statement about 7 fighters who fell martyrs in 2016.
The YPG statement said.
7 jihadists were killed, 19 others wounded and a vehicle was destroyed as a result of HRE operations.
Afrin Liberation Forces (HRE) announced the results of their latest operations against the occupation forces in northern Syria. Details of the HRE operations announced in a written statement are as follows;
On March 16, HRE fighters carried out a sabotage operation against Turkish-backed mercenaries at a checkpoint in Afrin, leaving 4 of them wounded.
On March 18, operations by HRE fighters in Afrin city centre killed 6 jihadists and wounded 15 others.
HRE fighters targeted the mercenaries in Celemê village of Jindires district, which left a mercenary dead and a vehicle destroyed.
7 jihadists were killed, 19 others wounded and a vehicle was destroyed as a result of HRE operations.
Three of these civilians, Mustefa Mihemed İbiş, Mihemed Xelil Şaban and Ehmed Arif İbiş, were kidnapped from the village of Badina, Rajo by the so-called ‘Firqat 112’ group.
Kamiran Sibhi Qasimo and Mihemed Ebdo, on the other hand, were kidnapped by the ‘Mehmet Fatih’ group from the village of Birimece, Mabata.
The statement reads as follows:
The invading Turkish state and its gangs bombed civilian settlements in Girê Spî last night.
The invading Turkish state and its gangs bombed the villages of Qizelî and Silîp as well as Qizelî wheat warehouse in the west of Girê Spî with artillery shots.
In the attack, a fire broke out affecting people's houses and agricultural lands.
The invading Turkish army is heavily bombing villages of Afrin and Til Temir.
The invading Turkish state and its mercenaries are bombing the village of Um El Kêf in Til Temir and the villages of Bênê and Aqibê in Shêrawa (Afrin).
Afrin Liberation Forces (HRE) announced that at least one jihadist was killed and another five wounded as result of their operations.
On April 2nd, HRE fighters hit the jihadists in Beradê village of Sherawa, leaving one mercenary dead and three others wounded.
On April 12th, HRE targeted the mercenaries in al-Bab city center, which left two jihadists wounded.
ID details of the three HRE fighters are as follows:
The Afrin Liberation Forces (HRE) reported that at least 6 invaders were killed and 5 injured in the actions they carried out against the invading Turkish forces and mercenaries in Shêrawa, Afrin and Azaz.
The Afrin Liberation Forces (HRE) stated that the actions took place between 15-18 April. According to the statement issued, two mercenaries were killed in Shêrawa, 1 in Azaz and 3 in Afrin.
The HRE's statement said:
On 15 April, our forces carried out a sabotage action against mercenaries affiliated to the invading Turkish army in the village of Kefer Nebo in Shêrawa. As a result of the action, 2 mercenaries died and 2 were injured.
18 April: Our forces carried out a sabotage action against the invading army mercenaries at the Wetani junction in the center of the city of Afrin. In this action, 3 mercenaries were killed and 3 injured.
Israel has carried out numerous attacks allegedly against Iran and Hezbollah, which have sided with Damascus since 2011, when the civil war began in Syria.
On April 20, according to regime sources, some targets in the Palmira desert were bombed by Israel.
The Syrian Human Rights Observatory reported that the posts of the Iranian militia were targeted in the attack, 3 Syrian fighters and 6 foreign fighters were killed.
Now they continued to be exposed to the attacks of the Turkish state as well as to the coronavirus pandemic threat.
The co-chair of the Sherewa Council, Evdo Berakat, said that they are trying to take measures to protect the people against the danger posed by the coronavirus infection.
We have neither hospital nor doctors.
If the coronavirus outbreak reaches us, the consequences will be devastating.
Someone should say stop to Erdogan.
We are 14 families.
And, the Turkish state is attacking with mortars.
We no longer know what to do against these attacks.
Semar Ebdullah, co-chair of the Hesekê Canton Council, said that the Turkish state, which left one million people without water, has committed a crime against humanity by using basic needs as a weapon.
The curfew, which was announced on 23 March due to the coronavirus epidemic, continues in the northern and eastern Syria regions.
According to the Autonomous Administration sources, 80 percent of the local people do not leave their homes, following the curfew.
The measures taken in the region due to the virus are also being increased.
Ebdullah called on the people living in the regions of the Hesekê Canton (Şedade, Hall, Hesêkê, Til Temir, Amûdê, Dirbesiyê) to comply with the decisions taken by the Autonomous Administration.
Ebdullah accused the Turkish state and its mercenaries to have committed a crime against humanity by leaving the people without water.
Heyva Sor a Kurd has established a 120-bed capacity hospital in Hesekê to fight the coronavirus pandemic.
A 4.0 magnitude earthquake occurred in Kemaliye, Erzincan.
Kandilli Observatory announced that a 4.0 magnitude earthquake occurred at 6.41 pm in Kemaliye, province of Erzincan.
The Kurdish Revolutionary Youth Movement carried out two separate actions in Marseille to protest the Turkish occupation attacks.
A second action was held in the Marignane region.
Young people here hung a banner with the words "Defend Maxmur" on an overpass and drew attention to the attacks of the fascist Turkish state in South Kurdistan.
Ömer Hayri Konar’s brother Ali Konar, Hamili Yıldırım's brother Polat Yıldırım and Veysi Aktaş' sister Melihe Çetin also applied to the prosecutor's office through their lawyers.
Young people in Stuttgart protested the isolation against Kurdish people's leader Abdullah Öcalan.
The actions of Kurdish youth in Europe continue to protest the isolation imposed by the Turkish state against Kurdish people's leader Abdullah Öcalan.
Young people shouted slogans like "Freedom for Öcalan", "Bê Serok Jiyan Nabe", "Revenge" and "Long Live Öcalan" in German, Kurdish and Turkish.
Upstream states in Mesopotamia must ensure the rights of people downstream to water.
Peoples’ Democratic Party (HDP)
Democratic Regions Party (DBP)
Socialist Party of the Oppressed (ESP)
Republican People’s Party (CHP)
‘78s Association
Peace Mothers
Dicle Amed Women Platform (DAKAP)
Code Name: Tekoşer Gever
Name Surname: Müslih İke
Place of Birth: Hakkari
Mother - Father Name: Mahbup - Ahmet
Date and Place of Martyrdom: 20 August 2019 / Medya Defense Areas
Comrade Tekoşer joined in the Kurdistan Freedom Struggle in 1993 at a young age and worked with active devotion on the war field for many years.
The Covid-19 pandemic has spread around the world.
There was no information available as to the damages after the earthquake.
According to the statement, the Turkish army launched an operation on April 15 in Xakurke region of Medya Defense Zones in southern Kurdistan, northern Iraq.
The Turkish jets shelled the vicinity of the Chemanke village in Gare region of Medya Defense Zones on April 14.
The air strikes did not cause any casualties in guerrilla ranks, but there was massive material damage to the civilian population's farmland.
On April 1, HRE carried out a sabotage operation against the vehicle of jihadist leader Abu Khalid in the village of Birç Heyder in Sherawa.
Khalid and two other jihadists were killed and the vehicle was completely destroyed.
SDF Commander General Mazloum Abdi calls in a video message for the measures against the spread of the coronavirus adopted by the autonomous administration in northeast Syria to be followed.
The village of Um al-Hosh in the northern Syrian canton of Shehba has been quarantined, reported the co-chair of the Health Committee of Northern and Eastern Syria, Dr. Ciwan Mustafa.
Internal Security Forces launched an operation.
According to the information received, two hand grenades were thrown at a civilian house by unidentified person(s) at around 1 am on Friday.
There was no loss of life in the attack.
At the same night, two vehicles belonging to the Syrian government forces were set on fire by an unidentified person or persons.
It is not known whether the two attacks are connected.
Internal Security Forces launched an operation following the attacks.
After ISIS cells had carried out a series of attacks in Raqqa recently, military forces increased security measures against the mercenaries in the region.
Two jihadists were killed and another three wounded in the sabotage action.
In the run-up to a visit by a Russian delegation to Ankara today, the Turkish-backed jihadists are said to have decided to withdraw from the M5 motorway between Idlib and Aleppo.
After the Syrian army took Saraqeb in the south of Idlib with Russian air and ground support, the militias supported by Turkey are said to have decided to withdraw from some areas along the M5 road.
The attacks killed a 65-year-old civilian named Elî Menle Ebû Şabo in the village of Aqiba in Afrin’s Sherawa district.
Afrin Liberation Forces (HRE) fighter Xalid Elo (Efrîn) was injured in resistance against the Turkish occupation on March 21 and died of his injuries on March 31.
Our comrade Efrîn was born in Afrin into a patriotic family.
Under the impression of the resistance against the occupation of Afrin by the Turkish army and its gangs, he joined our ranks.
He fought against the occupation with great anger and showed exemplary courage until his last breath.
Nom de Guerre: Efrîn
First and Last name: Xalid Elo
Mother’s Name: Meryem
Father’s Name: Elî
Place of Birth: Afrin
Place and Date of Martyrdom: Second stage of the Afrin resistance / 31 March 2020
Civaka Azad, which is working for Kurds in Germany, will organize an online panel on Thursday regarding the embargo imposed on Maxmur Refugee Camp for over 10 months.
Following the murder of MIT official Osman Köse in Hewlêr, South Kurdistan, on 17 July 2019, the KDP imposed an embargo on Maxmur Refugee Camp using this incident as a pretext.
In addition, camp officials from Maxmûr will participate in the panel live and provide information about the latest situation.
The meeting will begin at 7 pm on Thursday 7 May and can be followed at this address: https://civaka-azad.org/mexmur/
The body of Grup Yorum member Ibrahim Gökçek, who died two days after calling off the death fast he had carried on for 323 days, was brought to Kayseri for the funeral cemetery accompanied by the police at night.
On 5 April drug dealers were attacked in Amed Sur Melikahmet.
The house where drugs were sold was attacked and made unusable.
On 5 April, Turkish police officers patrolled in the Fiskaya neighborhood of Amed's Yenişehir district were attacked with handmade explosives, and the enemy was hit in the action.
On 12 and 15 April, 5 vehicles belonging to fascists were burned and destroyed in Kartal district of Istanbul.
On 19 April our self-defense revenge units protested against the attacks on Maxm and Zînî Wertê in Van İpekyolu Xaçort, blocking the streets. The invading enemy police officers who came to the area were shot at and withdrew .
Our units provided security in the neighborhood until morning.
On 23 April, in Arnavutköy, a bus belonging to AKP collaborator was burned and a commercial taxi was destroyed.
On 24 April three vehicles belonging to fascist collaborators were burned down in Esenler.
On 27 April, the vehicle of a fascist AKP council member was burned in Başakşehir.
The International Society for Human Rights (IGFM) has asked Turkish President Erdogan to release Kurdish politician Gülser Yildirim.
On May 2, the Turkish army launched a military operation on Mount Cudi in Şırnak countryside which covered the areas of Deriyê Xendekê, Deriyê Hirçê and Kasaphane.
The operation was ended without any results on May 5.
On May 5, guerrillas targeted a military post located between the areas of Dader and Siwaro in the region of Mount Cudi.
On the same day, the HPG carried out a sabotage operation near the village of Osyan in Besta region.
One billion women worldwide have been raped or harassed.
Women refuse to assume passively this violence.
The One Billion Rising campaign called on women to get on their feet and protest on February 14.
One in three women worldwide has been subjected to violence, beaten, forced to have sex, raped or mistreated. One in three women corresponds to 1 billion women.
This morning, Saturday, April 11th, the death sentence of Mustafa Salimi, a prisoner sentenced to death, was carried out in Saqez Prison.
The prisoner escaped from the Saqez prison after the riots. According to Kurdish journalists and human rights activists, he was arrested in the Kurdistan Region after escaping from a prison and then handed over to the Iranian government.
Mustafa Salimi, was born on June 25th, 1967, was sentenced to 15 years in prison and death sentence by the Saqez Revolutionary Court, presided over by Judge Goodini, on April 5th, 2003 on charges of "membership in Kurdish parties, armed robbery, and moharebeh."
The prisoner's sentence was upheld by Branch 31 of the Supreme Court, and the prisoner went on a hunger strike several times during his imprisonment to protest the unfairness of his sentence.
On Tuesday, April 14th, a Kurdish citizen, Ismail Ardavani, 32, son of Jalal, from the village of Tarkhanabad, Marivan, was arrested by intelligence forces and transferred to the Sanandaj Intelligence Detention Center.
According to an informed source, the intelligence forces raided the personal home of the Kurdish citizen and detained him without providing any legal permission.
The informed source added: "Intelligence forces arrested this Kurdish citizen on charges of being a member of one of the Kurdish opposition parties of the Iranian government."
Ismail Ardavani is currently being interrogated at the Sanandaj Intelligence Detention Center.
The Second Branch of the Kermanshah Revolutionary Court has sentenced four Kurdish cultural activists, Shahriar Tahmasebi from Kermanshah, Ardeshir Mousavi from Kermanshah, Mustafa Bagheri Ashna from Kangavar, and Arsalan Hedayati from Qorveh, to 9 months prison each.
In an interview with Kurdpa, Shahriar Tahmasebi confirmed the news, saying that the Second Branch of the Kermanshah Revolutionary Court, presided over by Judge Shahrokh Moradi, had issued the verdict on charges of "propaganda against the regime and forming a group with the intent to disrupt public order."
Shahriyar Tahmasebi, Ardeshir Mousavi and Mostafa Bagheri Ashna were arrested by security forces on Thursday, July 5, 2018, and Arsalan Hedayati was arrested on Friday, July 5, 2018.
These four cultural activists were released on bail after interrogations.
Ardeshir Mousavi and Mostafa Bagheri Ashna had been on a hunger strike in Dieselabad Prison in Kermanshah during the detention period from Wednesday, August 8, 2018 to Wednesday, August 29, 2018 in protest of "deprivation of legal rights and deprivation of medical services."
A 14-year-old teenager, "Payam Rostami", died on Saturday, February 22nd, from a landmine explosion in Qasr-e Shirin.
On Sunday, April 19th, Kamran Abdipour, a former prisoner, was detained by plainclothes forces in Saqez and taken to an unknown location.
According to Abdipoor's family, plainclothes forces told them that Kamran had been arrested on charges of collaborating with fugitive prisoners at Saqez Prison.
So far, the efforts of Abdipoor's family to find out the whereabouts of their child has been fruitless.
On Saturday, November 2nd, 2019, Kamran (Reza) Abdipoor was released from Saqez prison after 15 years in prison with the consent avengers of blood.
This Saqezi citizen was arrested during a clash that led to the murder of a man named "Mohammad Alizadeh" and was later sentenced to death.
Kurdpa Agency: Branch 2 of the Oshnavieh Criminal Court sentenced a Kurdish citizen to one year in discretionary imprisonment.
Branch 2 of the Oshnavieh Criminal Court has issued a sentence for this Kurdish citizen on charges of "cooperating with one of the Kurdish opposition parties of the Iranian government".
On Thursday, July 11th, Ali Esmaili was arrested by the intelligence forces and on Saturday, September 7th, he was transferred from the Urmia Intelligence detention center to the Naqadeh Intelligence Bureau.
Also on Thursday, January 17th, 2019, this Kurdish citizen was arrested by the intelligence forces on charges of "cooperating with one of the Kurdish opposition parties of the Iranian government".
Branch 101 of the Criminal Court II. Oshnavieh sentenced Rashid Naserzadeh, a Kurdish environmental activist to six years in discretionary imprisonment.
The court has charged this environmental activist with "gathering and colluding to commit crimes against national security and propaganda in favor of opposition and dissident groups."
The court, citing Articles 500 and 610 of the chapter on punishments and penalties deterrent by the Islamic Penal Code, and Article 134 of the Penal Code, sentenced this environmental activist to five years in prison on charges of "gathering and colluding to commit crimes against national security" and also, he has been sentenced to one year in prison on charges of "propaganda against the system", with the use of severe punishments, including previous prison terms.
The ruling was issued for the Kurdish activist, citing reports by the Oshnavieh Intelligence Bureau and the Judicial Bureau of the Oshnavieh Public Prosecutor's Office and Revolutionary Court.
This civil activist has been acquitted of "espionage for opposition groups" based on Article 37 of the Constitution and Article 4 of the Criminal Procedure Code.
This sentence was announced on Thursday, March 26th, to Rashid Naserzadeh.
This environmental activist from Oshnavieh was arrested by intelligence forces on Tuesday, December 3rd, 2019 was arrested on Piranshahr-Oshnavieh Road.
Rashid Nasarzadeh was released on 200 million Tomans bail, on Thursday, January 16th, 2020 after 44 days' detention.
On Tuesday, May 5th, a Kurdish citizen named "Idris Galedari" from Sanandaj was arrested by security forces and taken to an unknown location.
According to an informed source, six days after the arrest of the Kurdish citizen, his fate is unknown.
The informed source said: "This citizen of Sanandaj, while he had referred to one of the relevant companies for his personal car insurance, has been arrested by the security forces."
The informed source added: "After the arrest of this citizen, the security forces raided his private house and confiscated some of his personal belongings, including his computer."
The source said: " two brothers of Idris Galedari are members of one of the Kurdish opposition parties of the Iranian government."
No information is available on the reason for the arrest and detention of this citizen from Sanandaj, as of this writing.
On Saturday, April 25th, a Kurdish citizen named Jamil Khadem, 42, was detained by intelligence forces at the Sarv intersection in Urmia and taken to an unknown location.
Intelligence forces said the reason for the citizen's arrest was "cooperation with one of the Kurdish opposition parties of the Iranian government."
Until the moment of publication of this news, the citizen's family's efforts to find out whereabouts and his fate has been unsuccessful.
On Tuesday, May 20, an armed clash took place between Revolutionary Guards and an armed group in the Kaniguiz Heights between the villages of Rasha Deh and Dowaisa in Marivan.
Hamzeh Camp Public Relations announced in a statement that the IRGC's Shahramfar Camp in an joint operation with the Kurdistan Intelligence Agency have clashed with an armed group in the Marivan public area.
The Hamza base claimed in a statement that two members of the militant group were killed and four others were wounded in the clashes.
Following the clashes, the Revolutionary Guards shelled the scene.
The Revolutionary Guards have attributed the clash to Kurdish opposition parties in the Iranian government, but so far no one claimed the responsibility for the clash.
On Tuesday, May 5, IRGC forces clashed with an armed group in Chehel Cheshmeh, Divandarreh, in which Shakiba Salimi, an IRGC commander, and Jafar Nezampour and Mohammad Shokri, two other IRGC members, were killed.
In recent days, a Kurdish citizen, Obaid Aziz Nejad, from Kermanshah, has been detained by intelligence forces and taken to an unknown location.
On Monday, April 6, a Kurdish kolbar named Borhan Jankanlu, 28, resident of Bazargan, Maku, was killed in a direct firings by government troops and two other Kolbars were wounded.
Borhan Jankanlu is married and has two children.
This morning, Sunday, May 3rd, a Kurdish Kolbar named "Mahmoud Moradi", the son of Haj Jalal, died as a result of direct fire from government troops on the "Hangeh zhal" border in Baneh.
This morning, Thursday, April 23rd, a prisoner accused of "murder" named "Sina Mohammadi" from the village of "Serenjianeh", Dehgolan was executed despite the efforts of civil activists to obtain the consent of the victim's family.
This prisoner was transferred to solitary confinement in Sanandaj Central Prison a few days ago to serve his sentence.
Sina Mohammadi had committed murder at the age of less than 18 and was later sentenced to retaliation.
In this regard, on Wednesday, April 22nd, the death sentence of a prisoner accused of "premeditated murder" named "Loghman Ahmadpour" from Baneh was carried out in Sanandaj Central Prison.
This prisoner was arrested three years ago on charges of "premeditated murder" in Baneh and later sentenced to retaliation.
Also, on Tuesday, April 21st, Shayan Saeedpour, a prisoner sentenced to death, was executed in Saqez Prison.
On August 19th, 2015, Shayan Saeedpour, while under the age of 18, in a clash with a citizen killed a person named Suleman Azadi.
He was sentenced to death by the First Branch of the Criminal Court of Sanandaj on October 23rd, 2018 under the chairmanship of Judge Vafaeian, and the verdict was upheld by the Supreme Court in February.
Kurdpa Agency: Students' Basij at the University of Ilam prevented the publication of a Kurdish cultural magazine.
According to a report by the Kurdistan Press Agency, students' Basij at the University of Ilam prevented the publication of the Persian literary and cultural magazine "Rebandan Khosha".
According to an informed source, blocking the publication of this cultural magazine at the University of Ilam was granted by the university's licensed publisher.
The students' Basij at the University of Ilam has been threatened by summoned Mohammad Ghiasvand, the holder of the literary and Persian cultural magazine "Rebandan khosha".
In its first issue, the literary and Persian cultural magazine "Rebandan khosha" addressed the poetry, culture, literature and history of Kurdistan, which prevented by students' Basij of Ilam University.
On Thursday, April 2nd, "Tahsin Dadras", a Kurdish political prisoner from the village of Sardoush, was transferred from Marivan to the central prison of Sanandaj.
According to an informed source, this Kurdish political prisoner has rejected the request of the Marivan Intelligence Bureau to cooperate with the agency and the deputy head of the Marivan Intelligence Department had pressured on this political prisoner.
This source added: For several times, Marivan Prison and Intelligence officials have opposed to leave of absence the political prisoner.
This political prisoner was transferred to Marivan Prison for a term of imprisonment in 1397 and was deprived of his leave during his imprisonment.
On Thursday, November 30th, 2017, Tahsin Dadras was arrested by the intelligence agents on charges of "cooperating with one of the Kurdish opposition parties" and transferred to the Sanandaj Intelligence Bureau after a week of detention.
This Kurdish citizen was sentenced to eleven years imprisonment in the district court in August 1397 on a charge of "acting against national security and cooperating with the Kurdish opposition parties" and then changed to a six-year sentence in the appeals court in Sanandaj.
This Kurdish political prisoner was denied "access to a lawyer" during his detention.
On Wednesday, May 13, a group of Kurdish Kolbars have ambushed by government troops near the two border villages of Madlu and Vakil in Chaldoran and they were injured severely.
Reza Sarshiri, Manaf Hassanzadeh were injured in the knee and Behzad Ramezani was injured in the back.
In this regard, On Tuesday, May 12, a Kurdish Kolbar named Kamran Molania, 32, son of Ismail, from the village of Guolan, was shot dead by Iranian government forces at the Sardasht's border.
Saeed Sangar, a political prisoner imprisoned in Urmia Prison, was sentenced by the Second Branch of the Revolutionary Court of this city to 15 years in prison, presided over by Judge Sheikhlou.
This morning, Tuesday, April 21st, Shayan Saeedpour, a prisoner sentenced to death, was executed in Saqez Prison.
Yesterday, Saeedpour's family was called to the prison for the last visit, and the efforts of the citizens and trustees of Saqez to obtain the consent of the avengers of blood to prevent the execution of this prisoner sentenced to retaliation were fruitless.
On March 27th, Shayan Saeedpour escaped from Saqez Prison following an uprising in Saqez Prison.
The prisoner sentenced to death was later arrested by intelligence and transferred to Sanandaj Prison.
On August 19th, 2015, Shayan Saeedpour, while under the age of 18, in a clash with a citizen killed a person named Suleman Azadi.
He was sentenced to death by the First Branch of the Criminal Court of Sanandaj on October 23rd, 2018 under the chairmanship of Judge Vafaeian, and the verdict was upheld by the Supreme Court in February.
This morning, Saturday, April 11th, the death sentence of Mustafa Salimi, a prisoner sentenced to death, was carried out in Saqez Prison.
The prisoner was transferred to solitary confinement in the past few days to serve his sentence.
The prisoner escaped from the Saqez prison after the riots. According to Kurdish journalists and human rights activists, he was arrested in the Kurdistan Region after escaping from a prison and then handed over to the Iranian government.
Mustafa Salimi, was born on June 25th, 1967, was sentenced to 15 years in prison and death sentence by the Saqez Revolutionary Court, presided over by Judge Goodini, on April 5th, 2003 on charges of "membership in Kurdish parties, armed robbery, and moharebeh."
The prisoner's sentence was upheld by Branch 31 of the Supreme Court, and the prisoner went on a hunger strike several times during his imprisonment to protest the unfairness of his sentence.
This morning, Saturday, April 11th, the death sentence of Mustafa Salimi, a prisoner sentenced to death, was carried out in Saqez Prison.
Mustafa Salimi, was born on June 25th, 1967, was sentenced to 15 years in prison and death sentence by the Saqez Revolutionary Court, presided over by Judge Goodini, on April 5th, 2003 on charges of "membership in Kurdish parties, armed robbery, and moharebeh."
The prisoner's sentence was upheld by Branch 31 of the Supreme Court, and the prisoner went on a hunger strike several times during his imprisonment to protest the unfairness of his sentence.
Today, Saturday, May 16, a week has passed since the disappearance of Hedayat Hedayat Abdullahpour, a Kurdish political prisoner sentenced to death in Urmia Prison.
So far, the political prisoner's family's efforts to find out his fate and whereabouts have been unsuccessful.
On Tuesday, May 12, Amnesty International issued a statement urging Iranian government officials to immediately determine the fate and whereabouts of Hossein Silavi, Ali Khosarji and Naser Khafajian (Khafaji), three prisoners on death row from the Ahwazi Arab minority, and Hedayat Abdullahpour, a prisoner from the Kurdish minority on the death row.
On Saturday, May 9, Hedayat Abdullahpour was taken out of the ward under the pretext of a phone card and then transferred to an unknown location.
Hedayat Abdullahpour was transferred to Urmia Central Prison after the interrogation on October 16, 2016.
On March 2016, this Kurdish political prisoner sentenced to death in the First Branch of the Revolutionary Court of Urmia on charges of " rebellion and membership in one of the Kurdish opposition parties in the Iranian government."
This verdict was violated in Branch 47 of the Supreme Court and his case was referred to the Second Branch of the Urmia Revolutionary Court for retrial.
The retrial of this political prisoner sentenced to death was held on December 26, 2017 in the presence of a representative of the Urmia Prosecutor, and he was sentenced to death for the second time.
Hedayat Abdullahpour's case was referred to Branch 47 of the Supreme Court after the ruling of the Second Branch of the Revolutionary Court of Urmia, and on Monday, October 8, 2018, the death sentence of this political prisoner was confirmed and his lawyer was notified.
The case of this political prisoner is currently in the Urmia Amnesty and Pardon Commission.
On Sunday, May 3rd, two Kurdish citizens from Sanandaj, Tariq Rahimpour and Benjamin Rahimpour, sons of Musa, were detained by intelligence forces and taken to an unknown location.
These two citizens were detained without any legal permission and their fate is unknown.
So far, the family's pursuits of these two citizens to find out about their fate have been fruitless, and the reason for their arrest has not been determined.
On Tuesday, May 12, a Kurdish Kolbar named Kamran Molania, 32, son of Ismail, from the village of Guolan, was shot dead by Iranian government forces at the Sardasht's border.
Iranian government forces fired directly at this Kolbar and a group of Kolbars without any prior warning.
Kamran Molania is married and has one child.
in this regard, on the evening of Friday, May 8, a group of Kurdish Kolbars were shot by Iranian government forces at the border of "Bolsur Sofla" in Khoy. One Kolbar "Loghman Chahargoosheh" was killed and two others named "Mansour Chahargoosheh and Meysam Mohammadi" were severely injured.
This morning, Tuesday, April 28th, a prisoner accused of "murder" named "Fayeq Sharifi" from Divandarreh was executed in Sanandaj Central Prison.
This prisoner from the village of Tazehabad was arrested five years ago on charges of "premeditated murder" and sentenced to retribution (execution).
The Human Rights Organization of Iran has also announced that the death sentence of a prisoner accused of "murder" named "Yaser Rasouli" from Bokan has been carried out in Urmia Central Prison this morning.
This Bokani prisoner was arrested in 2011 on charges of "premeditated murder" and was being held in prison.
Mahabad Revolutionary Court sentenced a young Kurd man named Behnam Eliasy, son of Fatah to two years in prison.
The Mahabad Revolutionary Court has accused this young man of "supporting one of the Kurdish opposition parties in cyberspace".
This young Kurd was arrested on Friday, July 5, 2019, after being beaten by security forces without a legal permit.
Five Kurdish citizens named as "Sayed Ahmad Sabri", from Pasveh," Abdullah Hasanzadeh" from Pasveh, "Mohammad Ebrahimzadeh", from the Village of Khoranj, "Mohammad Eliasi" son of Mohammad Tahir, from Naqadeh, "Salam Bazargani", from Pasveh, have been transferred to the Urmia Sepah Detention center after being arrested.
These five Kurdish citizens were detained on Sunday, March 1st, by the intelligence agents without any legal permission.
Also, a Kurdish citizen named "Sayed Mustafa Sabri", a 70-year-old from Pasveh, was released after few hours of detention by the intelligence agents, and Abdullah Hassanzadeh was re-arrested by the intelligence forces after two days of detention and taken to the Revolutionary Guards Intelligence detention center and he has been relocated to Urmia Ettelaat Bureau.
Intelligence forces confiscated some of their personal belongings while detaining them.
No exact information is available on the charges against these five Kurdish citizens.
Photo: Mohammad Ebrahimzadeh, Sayed Ahmad Sabri, Salam Bazargani, Abdullah Hassanzadeh, Mohammad Eliasi
On Monday, March 30th, a Kurdish citizen named "Rahim Hassan Mahali", 50, son of Karim from Piranshahr, was transferred to ward three of Urmia Prison after serving two weeks in quarantine.
This morning, Tuesday, April 28th, a prisoner accused of "murder" named "Zourar Peyghami" from Oshnavieh was executed in Urmia Prison.
This prisoner killed a citizen named "Kaveh Maroufi" three years ago in a personal dispute.
Attempts by Oshnavieh's clerics and civil activists to obtain the victim's consent to prevent the execution of the prisoner were unsuccessful, and the victim's family rejected the request for amnesty and pardon.
In this regard, on the morning of Monday, April 27th, a prisoner accused of "murder" named "Keyvanullah Moradi", 28, resident of the village of "Balbanabad", Dehgolan, was executed in Sanandaj Central Prison.
In recent days, a young Kurdish man named Alan Bangin, 21, from the village of Kani Rash in Oshnavieh, was arrested by intelligence forces during his military service and taken to an unknown location.
Following the arrest of this young man, another young man from the village of Kani Rash, Yahya Ebrahimi, 21, was arrested by intelligence forces forces and taken to an unknown location.
Intelligence forces raided his family's home in the village of Kani Rash, and after searching his home, some of his personal belongings, including his computer, were confiscated and taken away.
No information is available on the reason for the arrest or whereabouts of the two Kurdish youths.
On Tuesday, March 17th, 2020, a Kurdish young man, Reza Osmani, from Marivan, was arrested by intelligence forces during Showarshama Sori ceremony.
Intelligence forces arrested this young man on charges of "raising the Kurdistan flag" and transferred him to an unknown location.
So far, the Kurdish citizen's family's follow-up for his fate has not yielded any results.
In this regard, on Tuesday, March 17th, a Kurdish citizen named "Mohammed Obeidi" from Marivan was arrested by intelligence agents due to raising the Kurdistan flag in Showarshama Sori ceremony.
The Sanandaj Revolutionary Court has sentenced Sirvan Ebrahimi, the head of Nojin Socio-cultural Association in Kamyaran's branch, to three years in prison.
The Sanandaj Revolutionary Court has charged this Kurdish teacher with "joining the opposition and acting against national security."
The head of the Nojin Socio-cultural Association in Kamyaran's branch was released on 500 million Toman bail on Thursday, September 12th.
This Kurdish activism was detained on Wednesday night, July 26th, without any legal permission by the intelligence agents.
On Tuesday, March 17th, a Kurdish Kolbar named "Sewan Sharifi", son of Khaled, from Baneh, died at the border of the city's "Hanga zhal" after government troops fired on him.
This Kurdish Kolbar has been targeted by government troops from close range without any warning.
The body of this Kurdish Kolbar was transferred to Baneh Forensic Medicine and has not yet been handed over to his family.
In this regard, in recent days, a Kurdish Kolbar, "Mohammad Qaderi", was severely injured in the Sardasht border crossing following by the direct firing of Revolutionary Guards.
On Friday, February 21st, a Kurdish citizen, Abdullah Sadeghi, was arrested by intelligence forces and taken to an unknown location.
This Kurdish young man was arrested without legal authorization and intelligence officials accused him about "propaganda against boycotting the elections".
So far, the citizen's family has been unsuccessful in finding out about his fate.
On Wednesday, May 20, a young Kurdish man named Shahab Aji, 23, son of Hussein from the village of Gargol in Naqadeh, was arrested after being summoned to the Urmia Intelligence Bureau.
This young Kurd was taken to a detention center for questioning, and his exact fate is unknown.
This young man has been constantly summoned to security agencies recently.
Until the moment of publication of this news, no information is available on the reason for the arrest of this Kurdish citizen.
On Thursday, May 21, Iranian government forces stationed at the Bitush base targeted a group of Kurdish Kolbars at the Sardasht border.
Following the firing of government troops, two Kurdish Kolbars, Mansour Ismaili, 30, from Baghi village, and Bakhtiar Qaderian, 32, from the village of Shalmash in Sardasht, were seriously injured.
due to the bullets, these two Kurdish Kolbars were severely wounded in the back.
These two Kolbars were taken to Sardasht Medical Center for medical treatment.
On Tuesday, March 17th, a Kurdish citizen, Mohammed Obaidi, from Marivan, was arrested by intelligence forces.
This Kurdish citizen was arrested during a ceremony of Showarshama Sori for raising the flag of Kurdistan.
Intelligence forces transformed him to an unknown location after his arrest.
So far, the Kurdish citizen's family's pursuit about his fate has been fruitless.
On Thursday, March 12, a Kurdish youth named Khabat Mohammadi, from Sanandaj was arrested by plainclothes forces.
This young Kurd was taken to an unknown location after his arrest and his fate is not known.
Plainclothes officials have called the arrest of the young man "a member of one of the Kurdish opposition parties of the Iranian government".
This environmental activist was arrested without any permission and was transferred to an unknown location.
The commentary titled ‘the United States Consulate in Erbil is the first source of destabilizing the Iran’s west borders’ reads: “At the time the likelihood of destabilizing the Iran’s west borders by the Washington administration is so high, the US government appointed an experienced expert (Steven Fagin) on the Kurdish question as the US consul in Erbil.
It is noticeable that during the Mustafa Hijri’s visit to Washington, Fagin was one of the US officials who met him’.
Mentioning the recent visit of the Democratic Party of Iranian Kurdistan’s leader to the United states, it reads: “Mustafa Hijri, the PDKI’s leader visited Washington and met some of the US Department of State’s officials, congressmen and think tank’s scholars from 11 to 17 June.
The commentary claims that the United States was behind the Iranian Kurdish opposition groups and reports that the Iranian government accused America of providing those groups with financial, military supports.
To discuss this topic, Kurdpa News Agency has briefly interviewed Karim Parwizi, a member of the PDKI’s Executive Board.
Karim Parwizi: The Iranian regime has always claim that the foreign countries are behind the Iranian people’s activities especially the Kurdish movement to achieve their primary rights.
Those claims aren’t something new since they have been repeated for forty years.
In early years, it claimed that the Kurdish movement was under the influence of Imperialism, Zionism and the Soviet Unions and other political blocks.
Whereas as we know most of them were against each other.
Kurdpa Agency: Does the United States support your activities?
Karim Parwizi: We have been asking the United States’ government, America’s nation, American’s NGOs as well as all the democratic countries and any force supporting liberal and social movements to help us in our fighting to bring about freedom.
Unfortunately, the US government hasn’t still come up to our expectation to support the Kurdish movement in the Iranian Kurdistan.
We criticize the US in that it is expected to help other nations in their struggle to achieve freedom as well as stable peace.
We greatly appreciate receiving any support from the United States or any other country.
The Islamic Republic of Iran uses some terrorist groups like Hezbollah to suppress the Iranian people and plunder Iranian wealth to win the support of some countries like China and Russia in order to stay in power.
Therefore, the Iran’s suppressed nations have the right to find help and support for their struggle against this suppressing regime.
Kurdpa Agency: Iran claims that it is the US Consulate in Erbil that is planning the Rojhelat parties’ activities. Is it true?
Karim Parwizi: Even though we are looking forward to being politically supported by different sides whether it is the US Consulate, the US Department of State or any other side.
The Peshmerga activities and Peshmerga political-military tactics and strategies are planned by us not anybody else.
Following the PDKI’s intensive activities in Rojhelat, the IRGC’s top officials and officials from different state organizations in Iran threatened to destroy the party.
If the regime had succeeded in terrifying the Kurds in East Kurdistan, we couldn’t have seen the continuation of this nation’s movement and it might have surrendered after Khomeini issued Fatwa against this nation.
The Kurdish nation has been fighting the regime for four decades.
In recent days, a Kurdish citizen, Obaid Aziz Nejad, from Kermanshah, has been detained by intelligence forces and taken to an unknown location.
This Kermanshahi citizen was arrested without legal authorization and so far his family has been unsuccessful in finding out about his fate.
According to a source, intelligence forces have arrested this Kurdish citizen on charges of "cooperating with one of the Kurdish opposition parties of the Iranian government."
A few days ago, a Kurdish citizen from Kermanshah, Ismail Mansouri, was arrested by intelligence forces.
Intelligence forces have arrested this Kurdish citizen on the Dalahoo-Kermanshah Road without legal authorization.
No information is available on the fate and the reasons of this detention of this Kurdish citizen.
On Saturday evening, May 17, Turkish troops opened fire on a group of Kurdish Kolbars on the Qotur border in Khoy, one Kolbar, Bahram Yousefi, 35, from the village of Beljuk, was killed and another kolbar named Shemsaldin Omarpour was seriously injured.
These two Kolbars were shot by Turkish troops in the highlands of Qotur and taken to Van Turkish Hospital.
kolbar's body has not yet been returned to his family.
He is married and has four children.
Following the arrest of Kurdish citizens in Piranshahr on Tuesday, May 5th, five citizens, Ali Ghaderi, son of Rasoul, Mohammad Qaderi, son of Aziz, Hesam Aldin Pirani, son of Zahir, Amir Ghaderi, son of Khadar and Salam Kheri Aghlan, were arrested by security forces.
Also on Monday, May 4th, another citizen named "Vahed Qaderi", the son of Rasoul, was arrested by security forces.
These six citizens were taken to an unknown location after their arrest, and their fates are unknown.
So far, the exact reason for the arrest of these six citizens are unclear.
In this regard, on Monday, May 4th, two Kurdish citizens named "Ahad Mahmoud Hassan" and "Abu Bakr Mahmoud Hassan" from Piranshahr were arrested by security forces.
This morning, Wednesday, April 22nd, the death sentence of a prisoner accused of "premeditated murder" named "Loghman Ahmadpour" from Baneh was carried out in Sanandaj Central Prison.
This prisoner was arrested three years ago on charges of "premeditated murder" in Baneh and later sentenced to Qisas.
Loghman Ahmadpour is 30 years old, married and has two children.
In this regard, on Tuesday, April 21st, Shayan Saeedpour, a prisoner sentenced to death, was executed in Saqez Prison.
On August 19th, 2015, Shayan Saeedpour, while under the age of 18, in a clash with a citizen killed a person named Suleman Azadi.
The Urmia Military Court rejected the request for parole and probation of Farooq Sharoviriani and Amir Peyghami, two Kurdish political prisoners from the city of Oshnovieh in Kerman Prison.
According to an informed source, these two Kurdish political prisoners went on leave a few days ago after the outbreak of the corona virus and applied to the Urmia Military Court for amnesty and parole.
The informed source added: Seyyed Ebrahim Hosseini, the judge in the case of these two political prisoners, and Shahram Panahian, the judge in charge of enforcing the verdicts of the Urmia Military Court, opposed the request of these two political prisoners and announced that they would not be paroled.
The informed source stated: Seyyed Ebrahim Hosseini has announced to these two political prisoners that it does not matter what decisions the judiciary and the leader of the Iranian government make, we are ordering here and we are against your request for probation and parole.
On Sunday, September 29th, 2019, these two political prisoners went on strike to protest the inappropriate behavior of the head of the Kerman Prison's security department and to put pressure on them.
These two Kurdish political prisoners were sentenced to a total of eight years in prison and deportation to Kerman Prison by the Urmia Military Court on Tuesday, December 5th, 2017.
Amir Peygami was sentenced to four years in discretionary imprisonment and Farooq Sharoviriani to four years in discretionary imprisonment, according to the verdict, which was announced on Saturday, December 16th, 2017 to the lawyers of these two Kurdish citizens.
A military court in Urmia has accused these two Kurdish citizens to "collaborating with Kurdish opposition parties of the Iran.
On Monday, January 22nd, 2018, Farooq Sharoviriani was deported from Urmia Prison to Kerman Prison, and Amir Peyghami was deported to Kerman Prison on Monday, July 16th, 2019.
On Tuesday, February 25th, intelligence forces arrested a Kurdish young man, Sirvan Mohammadi, from Urmia, and transferred him to an unknown location.
The arrest of this young Kurdish man was carried out without legal authorization, and his exact fate is not known.
According to an informed source, this young Kurd was arrested on charges of "membership in one of the Kurdish opposition parties of the Iranian government."
So far, the young Kurdish family's pursuit of his fate has been useless.
A few days ago, a Kurdish young man named "Pouya Parvaneh", a 18-year-old, son of Abdullah, was detained by the Revolutionary Guards near the border of Oshnavieh.
This Kurdish young man has been taken to a security detention center in Urmia for questioning.
No information is available on the reasons for arresting ofthe 18-year-old man until now.
Adil Bahrami, a Kurdish political refugee from Kamyaran, along with 32 other asylum seekers were deported from Turkey to Iran on Thursday December 26th.
Chia Sohrabi, a friend of Adel Bahrami, said in an interview with the Kurdpa Agency: on August 28th, Adel Bahrami introduced himself to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees in Ankara and the UNHCR settle him in the city of Amassiar as a refugee.
On December 14th, Adel Bahrami was detained by Turkish police at the Antalya airport when he left Turkey illegally and was transferred to Antalya prison on January 24th.
According to him, the trial of the Kurdish political asylum seeker was held in Turkish court by three lawyers in three stages and the court issued his deportation order.
This Kurdish asylum seeker stated: After the court ruling, Adel Bahrami was held in Gary Gandarmah in central Antalya for a year and transferred to Agri Camp and from Bazargan border deported to Iran on Thursday, December 26th.
Chia Sohrabi added: Prior to Adel Bahrami's deportation to Iran, he informed the UNHCR for the deportation of this political asylum seeker.
Sohrabi said at the end: "I handed over this Kurdish activist's documents to the Turkish police in a special file, but the reason for his deportation is unknown."
Chia Sohrabi, from Divandarreh, has filed for political asylum with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees in Ankara two years ago and is awaiting an asylum application.
On Monday, February 24th, a Kurdish youth named "Rezgar Amini" from Urmia was arrested by intelligence forces.
The detainee was taken without legal authorization and transferred to the Urmia Intelligence Bureau for questioning.
Rezgar Amini was also detained in 2017 and he was temporarily released after interrogations.
Also on the same day, a Kurdish young man named Mohammad Faghizadeh from Piranshahr, was arrested by intelligence forces and his exact fate is unknown.
So far, the follow-up to the family of this citizen to find out about his fate has not yielded any results.
These two Kurdish youths have been arrested by intelligence forces on charges of "collaborating with one of the Kurdish opposition parties of the Iranian government".
The Fourth Branch of the Sanandaj Court of Appeals, presided over by Judge Mostafa Tayari, upheld the sentence of Kamran Sakhtemangar, a Kurdish labor activist who had been sentenced to six years in prison.
The Sanandaj Court of Appeals rejected the appeal of this labor activist, citing paragraph A of Article 455 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which upheld the appeal and ruled.
On November 19th, 2019, Kamran Sakhtemangar, a labor activist from Sanandaj, was sentenced to five years in prisonon charges of membership in one of the Kurdish opposition by the First Branch of the Revolutionary Court, presided over by Judge Hossein Saeedi, he was also sentenced to one year in prison, including previous days of detention and severe punishment on charges of propaganda against the regime.
This labor activist from Sanandaj was arrested on Thursday, September 5th, 2019, in connection with his activities in support of workers' rights in the private garden of Seyed Ali Hosseini, another labor activist in a village around Saqez, and he transferred to Sanandaj Ettelaat Detention Center.
This labor activist was released from Sanandaj Central Prison on Wednesday, November 27th, with a bail of 200 million Tomans.
On Monday evening, May 11, security forces arrested a Kurdish teenager named Sami Sharifian, 17, son of Hasan from the city of Pashweh in Piranshahr, and taken him to an unknown location.
According to an informed source, security forces raided the teenager's home and arrested him without any legal permission.
The first branch of the Sanandaj Revolutionary Court, headed by Judge Saeedi, has issued a three-year prison sentence for "Parisa Seifi", a Kamyaran cultural activist.
First Branch of the Sanandaj Revolutionary Court has charged thisl cultural activist with "propaganda against the system and membership in one of the Kurdish opposition parties of the Iranian government."
This Kurdish cultural activist appealed against this verdict and her file has been referred to the Sanandaj Court of Appeal for reconsideration.
Parisa Seifi, a student of art and graphic, was arrested by intelligence forces at her residence in Sanandajon Tuesday, November 12, 2019.
This cultural activist was released on February 23rd, 2020, on a heavy bail.
On Monday, March 16th, a Kurdish citizen, Keyvan Azami, 37, from the village of Kohlineh, died in Sarpol Zahab due to the severity of the mortar blast caused by the eight-year war between Iran and Iraq.
In this incident, which took place on Sunday, March 15th, this Kurdish citizen was seriously injured and due to severe injury died in hospital.
More than three decades after the end of the eight-year war between Iran and Iraq, mine-affected areas and war munitions continue to be victimized in Kurdistan, and the Iranian government has so far failed to provide funding to clear mine-affected areas and war munitions in Kurdistan.
On the evening of Friday, May 8th, a group of Kurdish Kolbars were shot by Iranian government forces on the border of "Bolsur Sofla" in Khoy.
One Kolbar "Loghman Chahargoosheh" was killed and two others named "Mansour Chahargoosheh and Meysam Mohammadi" were severely injured.
On Tuesday, May 5th, Revolutionary Guards clashed with an armed group in Chehel Cheshmeh, Divandarreh.
The IRGC's Hamzeh base's public relations office said that Shakiba Salimi, one of the IRGC's commanders, along with Jafar Nezampour and Mohammad Shokri, two other IRGC members, were killed in the clashes.
Hamzeh Sepah's headquarters attributed the clash to the Kurdish opposition parties of the Iranian government, but so far no one has claimed responsibility for the clash.
On Sunday, March 1st, intelligence forces raided the home of Sayed Mustafa Sabri and his son, Sayed Ahmad Sabri, in the city of Pasveh, and arrested them without legal authorization.
Sayed Mustafa Sabri was released after several hours of detention, but his son remains in the custody of intelligence forces, the source added.
Sayed Ahmad Sabri was taken to an unknown location after his arrest and his fate is not known, the source said.
No exact information has been released as to the arrests of the two Kurdish citizens.
According to the statistics recorded in "Mine and Life", 37 citizens were killed and injured in a landmine explosion in Iran and Kurdistan during 1398.
Out of this total, 9 citizens lost their lives in a landmine accident in Khuzestan, Golestan, Urmia, Sanandaj and Kermanshah provinces.
In that statistic, 6 people were injured in a landmine explosion under the age of 18.
According to these statistics, most of the injured in the legs and arms have been mutilated.
Of the 42 landmine and munitions explosions in Iran and Kurdistan, 3 have resulted in the loss of livestock.
"Mine and Life" works to raise awareness about the dangers of landmines in mine-affected provinces and publishes reports and news about landmine explosions and ammunition.
On Monday, March 30th, a Kurdish citizen named "Rahim Hassan Mahali", 50, son of Karim from Piranshahr, was transferred to ward three of Urmia Prison after serving two weeks in quarantine.
This Kurdish citizen was detained by intelligence forces and after 32 days detention in Urmia Ettelaat Detention Center, they transferred him to the central prison of Urmia and then released on bail.
On the morning of Monday, April 27th, a prisoner accused of "murder" named Keyvanullah Moradi, 28, resident of the village of Belbanabad in Dehgolan, was executed in Sanandaj Central Prison.
This prisoner committed the murder of a citizen from Qorveh named Emad Khaledian five years ago in a clash.
This prisoner was transferred to Sanandaj Prison from Qorveh Prison some time ago.
Keyvanullah Moradi is married and has one child.
On Monday, April 6, a Kurdish kolbar named Borhan Jankanlu, 28, resident of Bazargan, Maku, was killed in a direct firings by government troops and two other Kolbars were wounded.
Iranian government forces have fired directly at them because government officials have thought they are carrying smuggle goods.
The injured Kolbars were taken to Maku Medical Center for medical treatment.
Borhan Jankanlu is married and has two children.
Learning Kurdish online with Fêrgeha Kurdî
Girls of the Sun against ISIS
New song by guerrilla band Awazê Çiya: From mountains to seas
Marivan's organizations on International Mother Language Day
Kurdish publications banned in Van Book Fair
Kurdish language course opened in Russia
YPG pays tribute to 7 fighters who fell martyrs in Manbij in 2016
Turkish-backed mercenaries kidnap 5 civilians in Afrin
Attack kills a member of security forces in Qamishlo
Turkish invaders attacks village of Xirbitbeqir in Girê Spî
HRE: Our main duty is the liberation of Afrin
Two more civilians abducted in occupied Afrin
Occupation forces attack villages in Ain Issa
MSD calls for liberation war for Afrin and Turkish-occupied lands
Newroz celebrated in Qamislo
Mercenaries clash among themselves in Afrin
Turkish invaders attack villages of Shêrawa and Shera
Turkish invaders bomb villages of Shehba
Turkish armed drone hits Kobanê public order forces
HRE: 8 invaders killed, 2 vehicles destroyed
HRE: Two mercenaries killed in Afrin and Azaz
Civilian from Gire Spi tortured to death by Turkish-backed gangs
Turkey and HTŞ meet after tension in Idlib
Turkish state bombing villages of Afrin and Til Temir
Israel carries out new air strikes against Syria
Shehba refugees face double threat: coronavirus and Ankara
Three people injured by fire in Newroz camp die in hospital
Turkey deploys 10,300 soldiers in Aleppo and Idlib since February
Curfew begins in North and East Syria
UNICEF worried for interruption of water supply in NE Syria
Turkish-backed mercenaries clash in Afrin and Serêkaniyê
Turkish army shells a village in Til Rifat
YPG: We have no connection with the Afrin attack
Turkey sets up new military points in Idlib countryside
Turkey has a fence erected around Bilbile district of Afrin
Heyva Sor a Kurd sets up Covid-19 hospital in Hesekê
4.0 magnitude earthquake in Erzincan
Young Kurdish activists stage demonstrations in Marseille
Families and lawyers apply to visit Imralı
UN calls on governments to reduce the number of prisoners
Danish parties condemn attack on Maxmur Camp
Officials say 59 people died of coronavirus in the past 24 hours
Activists in Bern and Stuttgart protest Turkey
HDP calls for the release of prisoners over coronavirus threat
Young people march for Öcalan in Paris
Democratic Forces Union condemns attack against Maxmur
Ecology Platform: Forests are burned for "security reasons"
Turkish warplanes bomb the region of Bradost
Curfew in Southern Kurdistan extended until May
Long March to Zînî Wertê faces obstacles
Turkish armed drones bomb Maxmur - UPDATED
Turkish state makes new military shipments to South Kurdistan
Warplanes bomb Mount Qereçox in Maxmur
HPG pays tribute to commander Tekoşer Gever
Reconnaissance flights over Maxmur continue
KCK: This Ramadan should bring unity and freedom to Kurds
KCK calls for strengthened solidarity and organization
HPG: Three Turkish soldiers killed in Xakurke
8 March celebrations in Gothenburg and Örebro
Another civilian kidnapped in occupied Afrin
Autonomous administration condemns Turkish attack on Kobanê
Attack on a checkpoint causes material damage in Qamishlo
Village in Shehba under quarantine over corona suspicion
Child killed in mine explosion in Ain Issa
Aleppo under full control of the Syrian regime
Turkish-backed militias set to withdraw from M5
Fierce attacks kill a 65-year-old in a village of Afrin
Turkish-backed militias set to withdraw from M5
Car bomb explodes in Serêkaniyê
Clash between Turkish-backed mercenaries in Jarablus
Explosion during Russian-Turkish joint patrol in Idlib
Attack by occupation forces injures a civilian in Shehba
Occupiers burn down agricultural land in al-Bab
SDF fighter laid to rest in Kobane
Authorities try to prevent participation at Gökçek's funeral
IGFM calls for the release of HDP politician Gülser Yildirim
Banners and slogans against isolation in Istanbul
Signature campaign for Hasankeyf
HPG announces the names of Zînê Wertê martyrs
Intellectuals in Rojhilat call for dialogue over South Kurdistan
5 people jailed in Van for protesting the attack on Zini Werte
KJK warns against new Turkish occupation plans
HPG pays tribute to five martyrs who fell in Zagros
HPG reports guerrilla action in Çele, air raid in South Kurdistan
HPG publishes names of three guerrillas who fell in Heftanin
23 soldiers killed in guerrilla actions from Heftanin to Serhat
YJA Star hit Turkish soldiers in Heftanin
Police raid houses, detain 14 people in Van
Turkish soldiers desecrate guerrilla graves in Bingöl
HPG: Two MIT and three counter-guerrilla members killed in Amed
Two soldiers killed as guerillas hit a covert military unit in Am
HPG commander Zinar Sason martyred in Zap region
One Turkish soldier killed in Heftanin
HPG commemorates guerrilla fighter Eriş Avent Pasin
Remains of HPG guerrilla sent to family by cargo
Protests against feminicide banned in Northern Kurdistan
HDP calls on women to take to the streets on 25 November
Susan Mohammed from Bashur is one of ATHENA40's candidates
Violence against women cases 47 times higher than media reflects
Istanbul police detain 7 people distributing leaflets for 25 Nov.
Dozens of women murdered or committed suicide in South Kurdistan
Mustafa Salimi's death sentence was carried out in Saqez Prison
A Kurdish citizen was arrested by Ettelaat
Four Kurdish cultural activists have been sentenced to 36 months in prison
Arrest of a former prisoner in Saqez
A Kurdish citizen sentenced to one year in discretionary imprisonment
A Kurdish environmental activist was sentenced to six years in prison
A Kurdish citizen was arrested in Sanandaj
IRGC officials threatened the PDKI with further attacks
The director of Ershad Bureau in Paweh threatened Kurdish cultural activists and poets
A Kurdish citizen was taken to an unknown location after his arrest
Armed clash between Revolutionary Guards and an armed group in Marivan
Three Kurdish Kolbars were killed and wounded in Bazargan, Maku
Another prisoner executed in Sanandaj prison
Transfer of Kurdish political prisoner from Marivan prison to Sanandaj prison
Three Kurdish Kolbars were wounded at Chaldoran border
Saeed Sangar was sentenced to 15 years in prison
Shayan Saeedpour was executed
Malakshahi\'s Nowruz Celebration was canceled
One week has passed since the forced disappearance of Hedayat Abdullahpour
Detention of two Kurdish citizens in Sanandaj for unknown reasons
A Kurdish Kolbar was died after being shot by the government troops at the Sardasht's border
Execution of two other prisoners in Sanandaj and Urmia
A young man from Mahabad was sentenced to two years in prison
Transfer of five Kurdish citizens to Sepah Detention center in Urmia
Satiari welcomed Nowruz
Execution of a prisoner accused of "murder" in Urmia Central Prison
Two Kurdish youths from Oshnovieh were arrested by intelligence forces
Danish citizens were discouraged from traveling to Kurdistan, Balochistan and Khuzestan
Arrest of another Kurdish youth in Marivan for raising Kurdistan flag
Head of Nojin Socio-cultural Association Kamyaran's branch sentenced to three years in prison
A Kurdish Kolbar was died after government troops fired at the Baneh's border
Arrest of a Kurdish citizen in Sarpol-e Zahab
An injured young Ahvazi due to mine blast
A Kurdish youth was arrested after being summoned to Urmia's Ettelaat
Two Kurdish Kolbars were wounded at the Sardasht border
Arrest of a citizen for raising the Kurdistan flag
The plainclothes arrested a Kurdish youth in Sanandaj
Karim Parwizi : we are looking forward to seeing the United States’ and other countries’ political support for the Kurdish movement in Rojhelat
Bureau of Properties impounded Kamyaran Singer\'s artistry card
A Kurdish citizen was arrested in Kermanshah
A Kermanshahi citizen was arrested for "cooperating with one of the Kurdish parties"
Komala Refutes the Iranian Ministry of Intelligence’s claim
Two Kurdish Kolbars were killed and wounded after Turkish troops opened fire
Kurdish citizens continue to be detained in Piranshahr
Loghman Ahmadpour was executed in Sanandaj Central Prison
The Urmia Military Court has opposed the probation and parole of two Kurdish political prisoners
A Kurdish youth was arrested in Urmia
Arrest of a 18-year-old youth in Oshnavieh
Chia Sohrabi: Adel Bahrami has been deported to Iran after moving to Agri Camp
Saghez Provision Council adopted decisions to deal vigorously with the New Year celebrations
Two Kurdish youths were arrested by intelligence forces in Urmia and Piranshahr
The sentence of a labor activist in the Sanandaj Court of Appeals was upheld
Arrest of a Kurdish teenager in Piranshahr
Parisa Seifi sentenced to three years in discretionary prison
The bomb explosion killed a 37-year-old citizen in Sarpol Zahab
Three Kolbars killed and wounded by government gunfire
Three members of the Revolutionary Guards were killed in a military clash
The fire set on Vajin, a Cultural-Artistic Center in Mariwan was intentional
Arrest of two Kurdish citizens in Piranshahr for unknown reasons
37 civilians were killed and wounded in a landmine explosion in Iran and Kurdistan during 1398
Transfer of a citizen from Piranshahr to Urmia prison for serving his sentence
The death sentence of a prisoner accused of "murder" was carried out in Sanandaj prison
Osman Mustafa Pour, most prominent Kurdish political prisoner still deprived of leaving
Iran unveils smart laser-guided projectile