A joint concert of numerous Kurdish musicians took place in Stockholm.
The artists want to contribute to Kurdish national unity.
Afterwards, Mîhamed Taha Akreyi, Nasir Rezzazi, Narin Feqe, Nejmeddin Xulami, Hesen Şerif, Ayfer Düzdaş, Diyar Dersimi, Kejal Ademi, Hoshyar Hama Farag and Marîwan Safadin performed two Kurdish pieces of music each.
Ken Loach, has sent a message to Kobane International Film Festival.
Ken Loach, author of some unforgettable films, from Riff Raff to Raining Stones, from Land and Freedom to Ladybird, from Jimmy's Hall to I, Daniel Black, has never refrained from putting the finger on the wound, describing society and the working class and its ongoing struggle against capitalism, exploitation, and for justice and truth.
"I send you my warmest greetings and many congratulations for your new Festival.
Your work in celebrating film, and recognising the power of cinema to bring people together, while you have faced the most unspeakable suffering , is truly inspirational.
Your political achievements are respected around the world and there are many who support you in their hearts, though you may never hear from them.
Good luck for this year's Festival, I am sure it will get stronger year by year.
In friendship and solidarity."
Semar Ebdullah, co-chair of the Hesekê Canton Council, said that the Turkish state, which left one million people without water, has committed a crime against humanity by using basic needs as a weapon.
The curfew, which was announced on 23 March due to the coronavirus epidemic, continues in the northern and eastern Syria regions.
According to the Autonomous Administration sources, 80 percent of the local people do not leave their homes, following the curfew.
The measures taken in the region due to the virus are also being increased.
Ebdullah called on the people living in the regions of the Hesekê Canton (Şedade, Hall, Hesêkê, Til Temir, Amûdê, Dirbesiyê) to comply with the decisions taken by the Autonomous Administration.
Ebdullah said: "The coronavirus is spreading rapidly all over the world.
The Northern and Eastern Syrian Democratic Autonomous Administration declared a curfew in the precautionary area to prevent the spread of this epidemic.
Everyone should comply with this decision taken by the Autonomous Administration to protect public health. Everyone should take precautions and do whatever they can to prevent this epidemic from spreading to North and East Syria."
Calling on people to "stay at home to protect your family and society".
said: "Our people should not leave their house except for urgent needs.
Our primary duty is to protect our people."
Referring to the measures taken in the Canton of Hesekê, Ebdullah said that the measures were two-staged.
In the first stage, public buildings and most used areas were cleaned and disinfected.
In the second stage, Ebdullah said that the streets and neighborhoods are being washed and disinfected.
"Hesekê Canton has carried out cleaning and disinfection works in the city through the municipality.
Disinfection is continuing in all cantonal regions.
We distributed antibacterial disinfectants with cleaning materials to all regions.
All public buildings were also disinfected.
Then the neighborhoods and streets were washed and disinfected."
Ebdullah emphasized that the invading Turkish state and its mercenaries cut water in the Elok water facility, which meets the water needs of Hesekê and its districts.
"The water coming to the region was cut by the invading Turkish state and its mercenaries.
This poses big problems.
There is a rapidly widespread epidemic in the world, such as coronavirus, and this danger increases when there is no water.
The region needs water.
The Turkish state uses the basic needs of the people as weapons."
Ebdullah accused the Turkish state and its mercenaries to have committed a crime against humanity by leaving the people without water.
"Cutting water will also lead to the spread of diseases.
The disinfection works we have done in the city due to the lack of water are also disrupted.
We invite the United Nations, international organizations and the international public to put pressure on the Turkish state."
Children lit the first Newroz fire along the border in Qamishlo city of Rojava.
the HRE statement shows tht operations on April 21 and 23 left 10 Turkish-backed mercenaries dead, 14 others wounded and a vehicle destroyed.
On April 21, HRE fighters targeted the mercenary groups between the villages of Kîmarê and Beradê in Afrin’s Sherawa district.
Two mercenaries were killed and three others wounded as a result.
On April 23, HRE units carried out three separate sabotage operations against occupation forces in Jarablus and Rai.
Eight mercenaries were killed, at least 11 others wounded and a vehicle destroyed in these operations.
HRE fighters also hit the mercenaries at the Maratê junction in Afrin city center but the results of the action couldn’t be clarified.
A soldier of the Turkish army was assassinated in the Meryemin village in Afrin’s Shera district.
HRE fighters carried out two sabotage operations against Turkish-backed mercenaries in Darsuwan and Chama villages in Shera. Two vehicles were destroyed and six mercenaries were killed as a result.
A member of Turkish-backed mercenaries was assassinated in Malikiya village of Shera.
HRE fighters hit the mercenaries in the village of Kafr Xashir in Azaz region.
The number of casualties left here couldn’t be clarified.
In Kobanê, newly cultivated grain fields were set on fire by targeted artillery fire from the occupation forces.
TEV-DEM condemned the Syrian government's attempts to change demography in the north of Aleppo.
The Democratic Society Movement (TEV-DEM) condemned the Syrian government's attempts to change demography in Til Eran and Til Hasil in the north of Aleppo, in a written statement published on Friday.
The statement said:
"After 9 years of struggle in Syria, we continue to fight against the chauvinist policies and mentality of the dominant party.
The Syrian government still looks at the Kurds as if they are not Syrians and wants them to leave Syria.
It approaches the Kurds as if they were more dangerous than the invading Turkish army and plays with their fate. The Syrian government, which is making new decisions targeting the existence of the Kurdish people in different regions, has recently put into practice this policy in Til Eran and Til Hasil, where more than 125 thousand people live."
These regions were left vulnerable to the attacks of al-Nusra and other groups in the summer of 2013. Massacres followed.
Dozens of civilians were killed, kidnapped and the fate of many people is still unknown.
The responsible for this massacre is the Syrian regime, which does not defend civilians."
To accomplish this, the coronavirus outbreak is seen as an opportunity.
The proof of this is the conversion of school buildings in both cities into quarantine center.
In addition Roma people (gypsy) from the government-controlled regions have been placed in these schools.
The aim is to empty both towns and replace the population with chauvinist Roma families.
During this period, the invading Turkish state, Efrîn, Serêkaniyê and Girê Spî.
The Syrian government could move the quarantine centers of the Roma to these regions. Instead the government transferred the Roma to Til Hasil and Til Eran."
TEV-DEM condemned the Syrian government for opening quarantine centers in Til Eran and Til Hasil.
"We call on all civil society organizations and the United Nations to put pressure on the Syrian government to end this policy."
On 1 May some 100 mercenaries belonging to the "National Army" and to be sent to Libya were transported from Afrin to Turkey.
at 8: 30 am some 100 mercenaries belonging to the "National Army" and destined to go to Libya have been taken  to Turkey.
The mercenaries were taken across to Turkey from the village of Surke in Raco by bus, through a new bridge.
Local sources state that 2 mercenary groups objected to going to Libya, but they were persuaded by MIT.
The Syrian Human Rights Observatory had said in April that the number of mercenaries sent by the Turkish regime to Tripoli was 5,300, while nearly 2,100 others stayed in Turkey to undergo training courses.
The musician passed away died  as a result of his 323-day death fast protest
A march to pay tribute to Grup Yorum Ibrahim Gökçek, who died on Thursday, was organised in the neighborhood of Gazi in Istanbul but was stopped by police.
Ibrahim Gökçek died on 7 May at the hospital where he had been taken after calling off the death fast he had been carrying out for 323 days.
His body was taken on Thursday from the hospital morgue to Gazi Cemevi (Alevi place of prayer). Turkish police have closed off Gazi before Gökçek's remains are sent to his hometown, Kayseri.
Anti-riot vehicles were positioned at both entrances of the Cemevi, and the surrounding roads were closed off by the police.
Nobody was allowed to enter the Cemevi early in the morning except for a small group of people and some press members.
The lawyers and families of Kurdish people's leader Abdullah Öcalan and the other prisoners in Imralı made a new application.
The brother of Kurdish people's leader Abdullah Öcalan, Mehmet Öcalan and his tutelar, Mazlum Dinç, applied to the Bursa Chief Public Prosecutor's Office requesting permission to go to Imralı between 27 and 29 May.
The Kurdish leader’s brother Mehmet Öcalan was last able to visit his brother on 2 March following massive public pressure.
Ömer Hayri Konar’s brother Ali Konar, Hamili Yıldırım's brother Polat Yıldırım and Veysi Aktaş' sister Melihe Çetin also applied to the prosecutor's office through their lawyers.
The state should apologize to the families of the people of Dersim on the basis of acknowledging the truth, said co-chair of the HDP.
Tülay Hatimoğulları, co-chair of the HDP Peoples and Beliefs Commission, issued a written statement today, anniversary of the Dersim Genocide.
The state must face the truth of this brutal massacre, 83 years on. For this, a Truth and Acknowledgement Commission should be established. The archives should be opened, court records should be presented to the public, and the perpetrators involved in the massacre should be tried in absentia.
The burial places of Seyid Rıza and his companions should be disclosed, and the documents related to the exiled and adopted children / the missing daughters of Dersim should be released.
The name Dersim should be officially put back in use. The state should apologize to the families of the people of Dersim on the basis of acknowledging the truth."
DKP / BÖG commemorated revolutionary martyrs as part of the "Week of the Immortals".
The Revolutionary Communes Party / United Freedom Forces (DKP / BÖG) Central Executive Committee issued a statement within the scope of the Week of the Immortals, 9 to 16 May.
The statement said: "Ulaş Bayraktaroğlu, the founder leader of our party, responded to the call of history  just like the Soviet armies with fascism.
Receiving ISIS in his own fortress, Raqqa, he became immortal."
The European Women's Solidarity organised a protest against male violence in Frankfurt. Many women's organisations and institutions attended the action.
New Women, SKB, Zora, Sekuläre Migrantinnen, Amara, Courage, ADKH, Migrant Women's Association, Didif Young Women and many other civil society organisations participated in the action that took place on Wednesday.
The women gathered for Meryem Şahin, who was murdered in Hamburg by her husband on 1 May. She had been living a part from him for 7 years.
The women called for an enlargement of the struggle against male violence.
Şahin's friends and relatives also joined the action.
Activists also remembered Saray Güven, who was raped and murdered near Münster on 20 August 2017.
The activists said that in fact those punished were the victims, while those who killed women were actually rewarded.
Women called for an enlarged and organized struggle against male violence.
Guerrilla fighters of the YJA star declare 2020 the "year of victory" and call on the people to trust in their own strength.
Guerrilla fighters of the women's troops YJA-Star spoke to ANF about their perspectives for the new year. The fighters announced a new guerrilla offensive for the year 2020.
"2020 will be the phase of a new offensive for the guerrillas"
Guerrilla fighter Rûken Koçer explains:
"The year 2019 was a hard year for our people in all four parts of Kurdistan.
The attacks of Turkish fascism were very fierce, and there was outstanding resistance to them everywhere.
It was a year in which the fascist Turkish state had declared: 'In 2019 we will finish the guerrilla off, they won't be able to prepare for the winter'.
In Southern and Northern Kurdistan as well as in Rojava, a comprehensive war of annihilation took place.
As the Turkish state did not achieve any result despite all its technical possibilities, it tried to break the belief of the people in the resistance through psychological warfare.
But the PKK was not defeated and it will not be defeated.
You will see, we are entering the year 2020 strengthened.
As the guerrilla, we will start a new phase of the offensive in 2020.
We will make the whole repression of the Turkish state against the people fail and continue with the struggle.
We know very well that the Turkish state aims to annihilate the Kurdish people and carry out massacres also in 2020.
We will wage a strong guerrilla war against these attacks.
"We can succeed by our own strength"
We call on the people to be aware of the reality of the enemy, not to let themselves be made the tool of psychological warfare and not to believe it.
They should build their own units and strengthen themselves. Only through our own strength and our Leader  Kurdistan will be liberated and we can give our children a free future.
"The people must not believe the special war propaganda"
YJA star guerrilla fighter Sorxwin Baran says: "2020 will be the year of Leader Apo's freedom. At all times this has been our goal.
With this in mind, we have prepared for the year 2020 in a restructuring project.
We have further professionalized ourselves with the thirst for revenge for the murdered people and for Kurdish children,
we are entering the new year stronger than ever.
It has become clear in recent years that the enemy does not have the strength to fight us.
It bases its entire existence on technology, on unmanned and armed drones and fighter jets.
It has become clear to friend and foe that in no year has it been possible to defeat the guerrillas of Kurdistan.
Therefore the fascists in their media simply claim that they defeated us. So they make a psychological war against our people, to ultimately break their resistance.
As freedom fighters of this people we say: don`t believe this special war propaganda.
We have always been there and we will always be there.
We will continue our struggle until the liberation of Leader Apo and Kurdistan.
"We'll make it the year of victory"
YJA Star guerrilla fighter Mizgin Dilbirin explains: "2019 was a year of resistance.
2020 will be the year in which victory will emerge from resistance.
It will be a year in which Leader Apo will gain free working conditions.
We as guerrillas are preparing for 2020 in this way.
We will strengthen our resistance and crown it with victory.
We will fight to avenge our murdered children and people.
We will strengthen and educate ourselves on this basis as we prepare for the New Year."
The KJK Coordination denounced the international 15 February conspiracy against Abdullah Öcalan, stating that they will "never accept it".
KJK added Öcalan is "the true friend of women."
The (KJK) Coordination issued a statement on the 21st anniversary of the international conspiracy that, on 15 February 1999, resulted in the captivity of Kurdish people's leader Abdullah Öcalan.
The KJK stated that they consider the conspiracy "the biggest conspiracy developed in the history of humanity also against women's liberation".
Reber Apo (Leader Öcalan) has developed women's liberty studies throughout his life. He said that 'the first condition for the revolution is the right approach to women's freedom'."
Sherzat Feriforya, artist belonging to the Mesopotamian Culture and Art Center (MKM), has released a new album for Mir Muzik and Kom Yapim.
The album simply called Feriforya, is dedicated to Sakine Cansız, Leyla Şaylemez and Fidan Doğan, the immortal women of the Kurdish Freedom Struggle who were murdered in Paris on 9 January 2013.
Young musician Sherzat Feriforya spoke to ANF about the album and the dedication.
Explaining the meaning of his name, the artist said: “Feriforya is the name given to butterflies in Sason (Batman). I have found the name very beautiful for the ear and heart as well as aesthetically. Also I found it would be a good name to represent the sacred struggle of the revolutionaries Sakine, Leyla and Fidan”.
Singer Idir, one of the foremost ambassadors of Amazigh music, has died.
The singer of A Vava Inouva died in Paris on 2 May. His family confirmed his death in a statement on Idir's official Facebook page.
Algeria's President, Abdelmadjid Tebboune, wrote on Twitter: "I learnt with great sadness and sorrow the news of the death of Idir, an icon of Algerian art. With his death, Algeria loses one of its monuments."
Merivan International Theater Festival has started.
39 theater companies are participating in the festival from Armenia, Iraq, France, Spain, Bashure Kurdistan and Iran and Rojhilat.
There are 20 dramas and 5 religious and social peace plays to be performed in the festival. 4 plays will be staged by companies from Armenia, France, Spain and Iraq. 5 plays are about minors and the youth.
Many artists and intellectuals from all four parts of Kurdistan attended a meeting in Cologne to call for Kurdish national unity.
Kurdish artists and intellectuals gathered in Cologne to discuss Kurdish national unity.
Following the meeting, 47 artists, writers, scientists and academics published a joint declaration.
The declaration, which drew attention to the recent invasion attacks carried out by Turkey against Rojava and Kurdistan, called upon all forces to gather under the roof of national unity.
Call to world intellectuals and artists
"At a time when genocide is imposed on the Kurdish people, intellectuals and artists living around the world should not leave us alone, with their help we can make our voices heard.
We see that there are forces that want to eliminate the Kurdish people before the eyes of the whole world, and the workers and intellectuals of art must take a strong stance against this destruction process."
"The gains of the Kurdish people can be protected only by national unity and this can be achieved through a common struggle in all parts.
One of the most important traditions of Kurdish culture is shoemaking. The shoes called "Reşik" are produced in the small workshop of Mecit Emen in Van.
Shoe manufacturer Emen said that their aim is to transfer a culture to the next generation.
The shoes called 'reşik' have an important place in Kurdish culture.
These shoes have already gone beyond the borders of Turkey.
These 'old-age' shoes, which have a long history, are produced only in Van.
The main product used in the making of Reşik is knitted goat wool.
This wook is knitted by koçers in the villages of Bazîd û Îdirê.
This knitted product is delivered to shoe artisan Mecit Emen in the form of a cone.
Providing information about the production of 'Reşik' shoes, Mecit Emen said: "We do not have a serial production.
We are "culture carriers"
Emen said: "The previous generation in the region, that our fathers and grandfathers, were making and wearing these shoes.
This is our cultural heritage, the heritage of Van. We sell shoes to our customers in Turkey and abroad.
Because of the economic crisis, we are having difficulties, like all workers.
Talking about his new Kurdish poetry book, Yekta Şoreş stated that poetry is one of the most effective actions against the system.
Journalist and writer Yekta Şoreş has published a new poetry book in Kurdish, called "Azadî" [Freedom]. The book is published by J &amp;amp; J publisher.
Speaking to ANF, Şoreş said:
"We have the reality of a people whose country is divided into 4 parts and who are resisting and struggling despite everything.
"The book consists of 33 poems.
I wrote these poems in different times and places in various regions of Kurdistan.
While trying to express the suffering of our people, their longing for freedom and hope, in the book, as a child of these lands, I have experienced the pain, longing and hope of my people and translated them in poetry.
These poems emerged as a result of all this.
In my poems is reflected also how the emotions and hopeful moments of those who reached the areas of resistance for freedom have been left behind.
I wanted to express the scream of a individual, his cry, his commitment to society and his country with poetry."
Şoreş added: "When a person writes poetry, he should feel his responsibility for his country and society and think with his conscience.
This is the essence of reaching one's own community. When a person analyzes the community pain, sorrows, country and society in its own language, then the real truth emerges."
"The power and purpose of a poem is very important.
It is necessary to trust and believe in the power of poetry.
Poetry is the strongest stance and attitude towards all kinds of oppression and repression.
The poems filtered through the labor and greatness of the resistance have a very important contribution to the development of Kurdish poetry."
"We must protect our mother tongue against a system that tries to assimilate us in every way and strives to destroy our culture. We must speak and write our language everywhere.
The movie 'Ji bo Azadiyê' about the resistance of Sur, will be screened at the 18th Geneva Film Festival.
The journey through festivals of the movie 'Ji bo Azadiyê' (The End Will Be Spectacular) about the 100-day resistance in Sur, continues.
The film, produced and directed by the Rojava Film Commune, will be screened at the Geneva International Film Festival (FIFDH), one of the world's leading human rights-themed festivals.
The film will be screened on 12 March at the Espace Pitoëff-Théâtre.
Tickets for all films can be purchased online from the festival site.
'Ji bo Azadiyê' had its world première at the 25th Calcutta Film Festival, followed by the national première in Rojava, and then by the European première at the 49th Rotterdam Film Festival.
The film, which will be screened in Germany in March, will participate in two more international film festivals in two countries in April.
Link for online ticket:
Yazidis in Europe are preparing for the 1st Ezidxan Cultural Festival, which will be held on June 1 in Bielefeld, Germany.
The 1st Ezidxan Cultural Festival is organized under the motto, “Autonomy for Shengal, Peace in the Middle East”.
The organizers say the content of the festival was curated in accordance with Yazidi culture and tradition.
The committee announced that they have sent out invitations to all Yazidi associations, the Bielefeld City Council and all political parties in the city.
Hozan Shemdin, Hozan Xemdar &amp;amp; Hariman, Helbestvan Haci Qirani, Dexil Osman, Narinxan, Koroya NCE, Titale Feyzo, Folklor and Hamit Bahoz will take the stage in the festival.
The international Kurdish PEN held its tcongress in Oldenburg.
The congress brought together intellectuals and writers from the four parts of Kurdistan and the diaspora. The congress emphasized that there was more urgency for Kurdish national unity than ever before.
the Kurdish Artist Seîd Yûsiv died in hospital, He has been buried at his birthplace Qamishlo today.
Seîd Yûsiv was born in 1947 in Qamishlo. Within Kurdish society he is considered a legend. For more than five decades, the lute player was committed to the development of Kurdish music and played an important role in giving a new style to traditional Kurdish music in Syria.
Kurdish artists organize concerts for national unity in Stockholm.
Kurdish artists will organise a concert in Stockholm to contribute to the establishment of national unity.
We have documentaries from Ireland to Rojava, from Rojava to Afghanistan and they focus on an alternative living. The important thing is that we provide a platform to share ideas and experiences.”
FilmAmed will be held from 8 to 12 May. Today the opening will be held at ÇandAmed Cinema Hall. “FilmAmed - said Doğan - will again take place as free as ever.”
Cultural movements Tev-Çand and Kevana Zerin Europe commemorated Grup Yorum member Helin Bölek, who passed away after 288 days of hunger strike.
"The line of struggle followed by Helin Bölek will, of course, strengthen the revolutionary struggle of the peoples," said activists.
The statement added:
"The current AKP-MHP fascist government knows no boundaries in its inhuman practices against all sectors of society, especially Kurds.
Artists, intellectuals, and anyone who opposes the government are the target of AKP-MHP fascism.
This fascist power, which is afraid of art and artists and of course of journalists, has arrived at the end of the road and is resorting to all kinds of aggression, torture, violation of rights to survive."
"Artists are always stronger than lawmakers.
We will stand with our instrument, our words, our painting, our play, against this fascist power that wants artists to remain silent and subject to them.
All democratic and revolutionary forces, artists should come together to beat down this fascist power.
Helin Bölek died on the 288th day of her deathfast resistance. She was on hunger strike because she wanted to be free to sing.
Tev-Çand and Kevana Zerîn-Euroe commemorate Helin Bölek, who did not bow to fascism.
We invite everyone to raise their voices and make sure the demands of Ibrahim Gökçek, who is still on hunger strike, are accepted."
Two documentary films about Kurdish women were screened in Toulouse.
The two documentaries were screened at the Tournefeuille Utopia cinema to makr 25 November, .
More than 300 people attended the event which saw the contribution of Kurdish friend Marc Manegerie, Utopia cinema and Les Amis du Monde Diplomatique (friends of Le Monde Diplomatique).
After the screening, Manegerie talked about Kurdish history, and the director answered questions about democratic confederalism and the Kurdish women's struggle.
During the night, Kurdish music was introduced and a concert was given.
The 17th Kurdish Culture and Peace Festival was held in Toronto, Canada.
The annual Kurdish festival in Toronto, Canada was held on Sunday this year.
Former HDP MP Ahmet Yildirim and ournalist Mutlu Civiroglu were at the 17th Kurdish Culture and Peace Festival where Kurdish musicians Mikail Aslan.
Seyda Perincek and Ali Zendi gave concerts.
The children’s choir and folkloric dance groups garnered great interest.
The open air festival hosted MP Michael Levitt from Canada’s governing Liberal Party and MP Peter Kent from the opposition Conservatives as speakers.
NGO representatives also gave speeches after Canadian MPs.
Kurdish food was served at the festival and traditional Kurdish culture was celebrated.
The invaders are targeting civilians in the village of Xirbitbeqir in Girê Spî.
The invading Turkish state and its mercenaries have attacked the village of Xirbitbeqir in Girê Spî. Civilians living in the region are being targeted in the attack.
TEV-DEM condemned the Turkish state brutal attacks and bombardment against Maxmur Camp which is still under KDP embargo.
The Democratic Society Movement (TEV-DEM) issued a written statement regarding the attack of the Turkish state against Martyr Rustem Cudi (Maxmur) Camp on April 15.
TEV-DEM said: "The United Nations asked for a ceasefire to be declared everywhere, especially in the Middle East, to allow a more effective fight against the coronavirus outbreak.
But the truth is that these ceasefire calls for the virus, more dangerous than war, have actually been made to protect the interests of international forces."
"The state which attacks the will of the peoples most around the world is the Turkish state. The Turkish state carry out genocides against the Kurdish, Armenian, Syriac and Assyrian peoples.
In this process, calls were made to stop attacks, but the Turkish state attacked Maxmur Camp with the support of the KDP. As a result of this attack, 3 women died, while the governments of Iraq and the Kurdistan Region remained silent."
TEV-DEM condemns these attacks and bombing. We call on the governments of Baghdad and Hewler, and in particular the KDP, which keeps Maxmur Camp under embargo, to fulfill their responsibilities.
The Turkish state wants to leave the people of Maxmur hungry and thirsty with this embargo.
These people are civilians, not terrorists.
The Turkish state turned the current crisis into an opportunity and attacked the people of Maxmur."
Even before the Corona pandemic, it was difficult to provide food for displaced people who had fled the Turkish occupation zone in northern Syria. In the Washokani camp new measures against the virus have been taken.
The invading Turkish state has recently been increasing its military presence in the bases it established in South Kurdistan.
According to local sources, the Turkish regime has made new military shipments to its bases in South Kurdistan.
The same sources confirmed that the number of soldiers in all bases, positions and other infrastructures has increased.
In parallel with these developments, the Turkish state has carried out air strikes on the Zînî Wertê area and Maxmur refugee camp on 15 April killing 3 women.
It was noteworthy that the peshmerga forces, affiliated to the KDP, also moved forces to Zînî Wertê around the time of the Turkish deployment.
The village of Zînî Wertê, in the Kandil region, is located within the areas controlled by the PUK.
The Turkish state has intensified its occupying policies in South Kurdistan in recent years.
The Turkish invasion is militarily, politically and economically more evident than ever.
Turkish military bases have been present in the area since the 1990s.
During the AKP-MHP rule, the number of bases both increased and spread to cover a wider area.
At least 15 Turkish military bases have been established since 1994. The first military base established was in Salahaddin, 25 kilometers from Hewlêr.
Furthermore, the Turkish intelligence agency (MIT) has been active as never before and has established many new infrastructures.
New areas have been occupied since 2018 and Over 20 new points in the Bradost area have been occupied by Turkey.
The Turkish state continues its genocidal attacks in three parts of Kurdistan as part of its all-out war against the Kurdish people.
Informer Cotyar Muhsin Hisên, who was recruited by the Turkish secret service in Southern Kurdistan, tells which information about the guerrilla he passed on and what effects his activity had.
Cotyar Muhsin Hisên is a living example of how the Turkish state in Southern Kurdistan, besides its military presence and political influence, is trying to build up a network of agents in society consisting of collaborators.
The Kurdish man arrested by the HPG guerrilla was reinstated as a worker of a company operating near the Medya Defense Zones only one day after his dismissal and at the same time became a member of an agent network.
Now in HPG custody, he told how he was recruited, what information he passed on and the effects of his activities.
Cotyar Muhsin Hisên comes from the village Siyare near Amadiya city in Southern Kurdistan. His family is known as the Mendê branch of the Berwarî tribe.
He finished secondary school and is a construction worker.
In June 2019 he starts working for an oil company in the region.
After about a month he gets dismissed due to problems with the personnel manager.
On the same day he meets a person who has contacts with the company management.
He tells him about what happened, and the person asks him to go to work the next day anyway.
The next morning he resumes his job as if nothing had happened.
Then the person appears at his place, gives him his telephone number and asks for information about the PKK – their vehicles, positions, bases, movement areas.
Thus, in July 2019, Cotyar becomes part of the network of agents set up by this person.
What information was passed on?
In a video recording reached by ANF, Cotyar tells what information about guerrilla movements and locations he has passed on and how these places were subsequently bombed from the air:
One noon - he says he does not remember the exact time - he is sitting near the water factory in the village of Kanimazi and sees a guerrilla vehicle coming from the Chemanke town driving towards the village of Shikeftiya.
He immediately picks up the phone and passes the information on to his contact person.
He also informs that there is an orange sign on the vehicle, but no company emblem.
When he comes to work the next day, he sees the bombed vehicle near the village of Kareba.
While he works near the village Shilya, he sees a guerrilla base.
He checks the camp and sees a few chairs and similar items.
Later he photographs the place together with another worker named Sedîq and sends four photos to his contact person.
This place is also immediately bombed from the air.
He discovers a similar camp near the village of Rebetke and forwards photos.
Later he deposits a small GPS device in an empty cigarette box that his contact gave him.
An air raid is also carried out on this place.
On his way to work near Shikefte he takes a photo of a guerrilla camp in the presence of Hawar, Merwan and another person and passes the photo on.
The place is bombed by jets.
At a time of his work near the Hesneki village, he discovers a guerrilla location nearby and forwards a photo of it.
About twenty days later, the location is targeted by an airstrike.
When he and a friend discover a guerrilla camp between the villages of Rebetke and Kanika, he forwards a photograph of it.
His contact hands him a GPS device again, this time in an empty Coke can.
He brings the can into the camp and according to his information this place is also bombed.
He finds two guerrilla locations above the Kanika village, where logistic material is stored.
He photographs one of them and passes the photo on.
When he works near the village of Milberke, the workers are told by the company that there is a guerrilla camp nearby and that they should not go there under any circumstances.
Cotyar does not listen to the warning, takes two photos and passes them on.
He takes a photo of a guerrilla location between Kehreba and Kanî Mazê and forwards the photo.
A colleague sees four guerrilla fighters on the way to Shilya and takes photos of them.
He sees locations used by the guerrillas near Kanika and checks them together with Merwan, Hawar and one other person.
They even think about stealing the objects found there. An air raid is launched on the area later.
A new album by Kurdish musician Dilsen Roni has been released.
The new album Xewna Derew (Lie Dream) signed by Kurdish artist Diljen Roni, has been released by Kom Müzik.
In the album, Roni, which interprets the work of Koma Wetan soloist Kerem Gerdenzeri and his song ‘Sînê’, also performs the song ‘Ez û Yar’ (Yar and I) by Hozan Dilges, whose lyrics belong to the famous Kurdish Poet Cigerxwîn.
The album ‘Xewna Derew’ consists of 9 songs, 4 of them written by Roni who also composed the music of 7 songs.
Diljen Roni was influenced by social events, such as Cizre siege and the death of Ugur Kaymaz.
The artist answered ANF's questions about his new album.
There is not much style in Kurdish music.
This is a major shortcoming.
There are very few people who do rock music.
Ciwan Hoca was the first to use this guttural tone, we listened it from him.
I'm a fan of him.
That's why my voice at times may sounds like his.
But this is my style and I am comfortable with it.
We have a language problem.
The premiere of the documentary about the life of artist Mehmet Çapan, was held in Stuttgart.
At the gala attention was drawn to the importance of the mother language.
The life of artist Mehmet Çapan, who has been in the Friends Choir of Ruhi Su, one of the important names of Kirmanckî music, has been the subject of a documentary presented in Stuttgart.
The documentary titled 'Those hanging on the strings of Mem-Saz', directed by writer and musician Hasan Sağlam, was premiered at Stuttgart Delphi Arthaus Kino.
Ali Haydar Sever, the oldest person from Dersim living in Stuttgart addressed the crowd.
He condemned the massacre in Hanau and said: "Turkish politicians open the way for such massacres by spreading these [racist] ideas."
Sever added: “Our language is being attacked.
If we do not have language, we don’t exist.”
KON-MED called on all people in Europe to join the First Yazidi Cultural Festival to be held in Cologne.
In a written statement, the Confederation of Kurdish Communities in Germany said:
One of the participants was Human Rights Association (IHD) Honorary President Akın Birdal, Yellow Envelope (Sari Zarf), was available to readers.
“Yellow Envelope” tells the story of Birdal childhood, youth, professional life, political and social struggle, his entry into professional organizations, the Human Rights Association in which he has been involved until now and the armed attack he suffered on 12 May 1998.
Birdal provides in his Yellow Envelope, a summary of the struggle for nearly half a century. He describes the association of Aziz Nesin, Vedat Turkali, Can Yucel, Hirant Dink and Mihri Belli and his many comrades.
“a search for justice, freedom and hope.
A life history of about 50 years, which is in fact the story of all of us.
It is the story - he said - of the long walk towards human rights, peace, democracy and justice".
Birdal said that he would held presentation of the books in many Community Centers, Alevi Cultural Association and the Kurdish Democratic associations in the coming days.
Yellow Envelope will also be presented at the Istanbul TÜYAP Book Fair, later this November, and Birdal indicated he would participate to meet with readers in Turkey.
Brussels is hosting the sixth edition of Kurdish Culture Week.
The Brussels Kurdish Culture Week will be held between 10 and 14 July.
Culture week activities will began with a reception and will last four days.
The reception will be held at the KNK (Kurdistan National Congress) building.
On the first day, a traditional Kurdish wedding will be revived with the bride and groom taken on horseback from Brouckere to Espagne squares.
Traditional Kurdish clothes will be exhibited at the 'wedding'.
There will be concerts, speeches, workshops and many other activities throughout the cultural week.
The event area in Espagne square will include Kurdish tents to present Kurdish culture, as well as stands to present historical areas and events of Kurdistan, resistance and destruction, traditional food and book stands.
songs and drum-zurna accompanied by halay will mark the activities among which are also dance and film screenings.
This year, the Kurdish art of the dengbêj will be an integral part of cultural activities.
Armenian dance group, drum and kaval performances are also included in the program.
The aim of the cultural week, promoted by the Brussels Kurdish Institute, the Kurdistan National Congress and the Kurdish Community Center in Belgium, is organized.
The Kurdish Culture Days, organized every year in Nuremberg, begin on 29 May and will last 4 days full of concerts, panels, movies and dance.
The 10th edition of the Kurdish Culture Days, which is traditionally held in May every year by the Medya People’s House in Nuremberg, will begin on 29 May.
At Villa Leon Philipp-Koerber-weg, beginning at 6 pm, will be a panel moderated by sociologist Nihal Bayram with journalist-writer Ferda Çetin, journalist-writer Ahmet Nesin and journalist and politician Martin Dolzer.
On 1 June Saturday at 6 pm in Villa Leon there will be concerts to end the event: on stage, Koma Dengé Xwezayê, Hozan Aydın and Serhat Çar Newa.
Hêvî and Yekta… Two freedom activists, the conscience of the society, members of the Martyr Sefkan Culture and Art School, two guerrillas, two artists, who take the shovel and turn whatever place in the mountaing into a stage to perform their plays.
Two mountain Kurds; Hêvî and Yekta…
Two mountain people, one from Botan and the other from Dersim, two companions, two artist comrades, two revolutionary people…
27 March is International Theater Day. It is also Hêvî's birthday and it is also the day in which Yekta set himself on fire to meet with the truth.
27 March is the Newroz of the art and the fire of the free art of the people was lit.
What happened that day in 2004 widens the meaning of 27 March, adding new and free meanings to that time.
Hêvî and Yekta… Two freedom activists, the conscience of the society, members of the Martyr Sefkan Culture and and Art School, two guerrillas, two artists, who take the shovel and turn whatever place in the mountaing into a stage to perform their plays.
They are true art fighters.
The year 2004… An important year for the Kurdish Freedom Movement…
Hêvî and Yekta… In March and August 2004 they called artists to resist those who wanted to renew the international conspiracy… They were the free artists of a people who wanted to lead a new humanity culture in Maxmur and Rojava.
I will set myself on fire for both inviting friends to be a little serious about their duties, to apologize to our people, and to salute the Imrali freedom resistance of our Leader and the martyrs of Afrin and Qamishlo,”
Hêvî and Yekta…
The revolutionary lives of these two comrades are a call for us…
Whatever is done in our art world should be done as seriously as they did it, and if we are simple, modest and honest like them, we can affect everyone very deeply.
When necessary, we must learn the reality of life from children like Hêvî did. We must be committed to education, to be organized and to organize and be activists.
We must act with responsibility like Yekta and turn our idea of free art into a political force like they did.
As true theater artists, we must experience the enthusiasm of recreating life freely on the stage.
If we want to be ambassadors of beauty and truth like them, we must participate in the construction of a free cultural world through art.
They invite us to this beautiful and free world.
It is our duty to meet them again on 27 March, to enter the real play of life.
To engage in that action is to be the activist of that life.
To make time meaningful and free, to be part of a nation and universal history is to fight against genocide like Hêvî Şanoger and Yekta Herekol.
To claim our responsibilities, to be productive, creative and successful like them we must be mountain Kurd artists like them.
In order to have a true understanding and true intellectuals and artists, we have to love people and be passionately connected to the public, no matter how these comrades are.
We learned this truth from Hêvî and Yekta.
As Kurdish artists, we can become friends of Hêvî and Yekta by loving the people and being connected to them.
For this, we will live honestly and comitted.
In order for so much labor to achieve a permanent culture and lifestyle, we will carry out this art, the art that belongs to this society.
For the Kurdish national unity and the democratic unity of the Middle East, we will create life again and we will be free.
We will always be serious when it comes to life and in our art.
TEV-ÇAND co-chair Bülent Turan said that artists should take responsibility of the global struggle in this phase of crisis of capitalist modernity.
Speaking to ANF, Kurdish Cultural Movement (TEV-ÇAND) co-chair Bülent Turan said that artists have a leading role in the creation of democratic modernity, which is an alternative to the capitalist modernity that only creates crisis and disease.
Turan said: "The artist is not a politician, but he is not separated from political situations."
"The artist is not a politician.
He will not approach events and facts like a politician.
he will not remain indifferent to politics.
because he knows that politics will have a direct impact on his artistic life and freedom."
Turan said that a free political life paves the way for the artist and his/her developments.
"In totalitarian, oppressive and fascist regimes, art is forced into desertification.
It is very difficult to talk about democracy and freedom in countries where artists do not interact effectively with politics."
Turan added: "We have to say that artists have not taken an adequate leadership for the liberation of Kurdistan and democratization of Turkey. Turkey and Kurdistan artists are relatively scattered and not organized."
Everything ready for the 11th European Dersim Festival to be held in Frankfurt on 24 and 25 May.
The 11th annual European Dersim Festival will be held in Frankfurt this year.
The Organizing Committee made a statement about the festival , and invited everyone to join the event.
The statement continued:
“We have organised the Dersim Culture Festival for years with great dedication to Dersim, our faith, our language and our culture.
Joss Stone announced crossing into Rojava and giving a concert.
The British star, whose second album ‘Mind Body and Soul’ reached number one in the UK charts in 2004.
that doesn't mean it's all over for the Syrian people or the Kurdish people,
I have learnt a lot from my short time there.
I hope that peace will come to everyone on all sides soon."
As a result of the discussions among Kurdish language experts, a road map of activities for Kurdish language will be determined.
The Platform is composed by Peoples’ Democratic Party (HDP)
Democratic Regions Party (BDP)
the Freedom and Socialism Party (ÖSP)
the Kurdistan Democratic Party-Bakur (PDK-B) the Kurdistan Democratic Party-Turkey (PDK-T)
the Kurdistan Socialist Party (PSK)
the Kurdistan Freedom Party (PAK)
The campaign has been launched with the slogan "Today our mother tongue, tomorrow our nation".
PDK-T spokesperson, Şerefhan Ciziri delivered the opening speech at the workshop.
The  Culture Week in the Swiss city of Basel, began.
The Scandinavian Kurdish Culture Festival was organised in the Swedish capital Stockholm.
The festival, hosted by the Swedish Democratic Kurdish Community Center and the Sara Women's Union, began with a minute silence and was opened by the co-chairs of the Swedish Democratic Kurdish Center Ferah Bozcalı and Rıdvan Altun.
Kongra-Gel co-chair, Remzi Kartal, Kurdistan National Congress (KNK) Sweden representative, Ahmet Karamusa, HDP deputy Dilan Acumen Taşdemir, delivered speeches and talked about the current political developments in Kurdistan and Turkey.
Moderat (Conservative) Party deputy, Margeretha Cederfelt, Left Party deputy Daniel Riazat, Social Democratic Labor Party deputy candidate Kadir Kasırga shared the views of the parties they represent on the Kurdish issue with the participants.
Kongra-Gel co-chair, Remzi Kartal, said that the Turkish state war against the Kurdish Freedom Movement and the Kurdish people in Rojava, North and South Kurdistan has dragged the Turkish state into a deep economic and political crisis and that this crisis will deepen even further.
The European Union, starting with Germany, are actually helping Turkey in order to get their own interests, said Kartal, adding that, however, they won’t be successful as the Kurdish people would be able, together with Turkey's democratic forces and the entire Middle East to transform this crisis into an opportunity.
Noting that the Turkish state will not be able to emerge from the crisis as long as it continues the war against Kurds, Kartal added that the Turkish state has not succeeded in using the most advanced technique against Kurds.
KNK  representative, Ahmet Karamus, criticized the attitude of European countries after he reminded that the Kurdish Freedom Movement has defeated the DAESH mercenaries, a threat to the whole world:
“In Rojava, Kurds fought for human rights, democracy and freedom.
Thanks to the Kurds struggle, threats to Europe have been removed. - he said - But we do not see the appreciation of European countries.
According to Turkish President Erdogan, DAESH is not a terrorist group.
According to him, YPG / YPJ and PKK are terrorists.
We as KNK, we asked the European Union and the United States to remove the PKK from their list of terrorist organizations”.
Conservative Party MP Margaret Cederfelt went to Turkey as an observer during the recent elections. She said she witnessed the pressure on people in Kurdistan to force them to vote for the AKP.
Left Party deputy Daniel Riazat said that the Left Party opposed any attacks on the Kurdish people and demanded that the government also take a stand.
Condemning the occupation, attacks and bombings of Rojava and South Kurdistan by the Turkish state, Riazat emphasized that the Left Party will intensify its work to remove the PKK from its list of terrorist organizations.
HDP deputy Dilan Acumen Taşdemir, reminded the audience that the struggle of the HDP is not only limited to the democratization of Turkey.
the purpose of the struggle is to spread freedom and democracy in the Middle East.
The North Syrian region of Shehba is under a siege.
The supply of hygiene materials and medicines is difficult.
Under these conditions, the population is trying to fight the pandemic.
The autonomous administration, the local government and the health committee of Shehba are doing everything in their power to prevent the spread of the pandemic.
After the closure of schools and public facilities, all areas are being disinfected.
Even though the Syrian regime has not yet issued a statement on the pandemic, reports of COVID-19 cases in Latakia, Aleppo and Damascus are putting people in fear.
The internally displaced persons from Afrin, who live in difficult conditions in the region, are particularly threatened.
The co-mayor of the Shehba Municipality, Melek Huseyin, reports that no cases have yet been detected in the region; health committees, communes and councils are active and taking precautions against the virus.
Information events are being organised and people are warned through television programmes, brochures and leaflets.
The co-mayor reports on a cleaning campaign in three phases;
The first phase is the cleaning of outside areas and disinfection of all facilities, schools, shops and restaurants.
The second phase will involve the disinfection of all houses, streets, rubbish dumps, the sewage system and mosques.
In the third phase, all streets will be steamed with disinfectant.
The work is to be carried out every 15 days for the next six months.
"As you know, Shehba has been a war zone.
For this reason, most of the houses have been destroyed, which is not good for health."
In a village near Ain Issa in northern Syria, a thirteen-year-old shepherd died in a mine explosion.
Necah and Fahrettin Mihemmed, from Serêkaniyê, have settled in Washokanî Camp to escape the brutality of the invading Turkish state. The are certain that "the YPG and YPJ fighters will clear Serêkaniyê from the invaders."
Over 300 thousand civilians were forced to flee their homes due to the invasion attacks carried out by the Turkish state and its mercenaries against Serêkaniyê on 9 October 2019.
The Democratic Autonomous Administration of North and East Syria established the Washokanî Camp in the north of Hesekê for refugees coming from Serêkaniyê.
One of the families who settled in Washokanî Camp is that of Necah and Fahrettin Mihemed.
Trying to carry on with their job in front of a tent
Necah Mihemmed was selling shoes in Serêkaniyê, while Fahrettin was a barber.
Necah and Fahrettin Mihemmed are trying to continue their jobs.
"Erdogan constantly said he will attack, he was constantly threatened us.
On 9 October, 3-4 Turkish warplanes belonging to the Turkish state bombed our city.
Some civilians died and some were injured.
Despite the intense attacks, we did not leave our home and we were actually not thinking of leaving.
However, we had to go when the planes hit our homes.
Necah Mihemmed pointed out that all peoples, Kurds, Arabs, Armenians and Turkmens live together in Serêkaniyê
"We had a happy and peaceful life.
The Turkish state did not allow us to continue to live in happiness.
They plundered our house and workplaces.
They forced us out of our houses.
We should bring to account those who carried out this persecution."
"They burned our house after looting our belongings.
They even burned the trees in our garden.
They left neither doors nor windows.
The Turkish should be held accountable for this brutality.
"I was so sad when I left my home and the land where I was born, just as a person gets upset when she leaves her child.
I believe that the YPG and YPJ forces will one day liberate Serêkaniyê from the invaders."
"We were forced out of our house even though we had committed no crime.
We had a shop, we were working together as a family and making a living.
We are currently living in a tent in a camp.
We want to live in our own home, not in tents.
Everyone should do their best for us to help us go back."
A village in the self-governing North Syrian region of Shehba was quarantined due to suspected corona.
The village of Um al-Hosh in the northern Syrian canton of Shehba has been quarantined, reported the co-chair of the Health Committee of Northern and Eastern Syria, Dr. Ciwan Mustafa.
Um al-Hosh is repeatedly the target of Turkish artillery attacks. The inhabitants are now in a doubly difficult situation.
On the other hand, the fires started by the occupation forces in Kefifa village of Gire Spi and Rihaniya and Faysaliya villages of Til Temir are also continuing to rage.
The invaders here are also preventing civilians from attempting to intervene.
A mine planted by Turkish troops in the vicinity of the Zenuba village in Gire Spi  has exploded.
The explosion killed a child named Mihemed Ibêd Evdêla, while two other children, 7-year-old Saqi and 11-year-old Ismail were wounded.
The wounded kids have been taken to Kobanê Hospital for treatment.
Hospital officials stated that the kids are not in life-threatening conditions.
An explosion has occurred as a joint Russian-Turkish patrol passed through the Aleppo-Latakia (M4) highway on Tuesday.
Tensions continue in the area while further details were not immediately available.
As the MSD, we condemn every attack against the civilian population in Afrin.
We appeal to the international public to take responsibility and stop the Turkish occupation and attacks immediately. A climate for a solution in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution must be created."
Resolution 2254 calls for an immediate cessation of hostilities, in particular attacks against the civilian population.
In a village near the Turkish state-occupied city of Serêkaniyê in northern Syria, a car bomb prepared by jihadists exploded prematurely.
A car bomb has exploded in the village of Ihras near the Turkish state-occupied city of Serêkaniyê.
the vehicle, which had been prepared with explosives by Turkish state was set to be used in an attack but exploded prematurely.
The explosion is said to have caused deaths and injuries.
Further information on the incident in the Turkish occupied zone is not yet available.
Internal conflicts between jihadist mercenary troops in the Turkish-occupied territories of northern Syria continue increasingly.
Clashes are taking place between the Turkish-backed jihadist proxy groups almost on daily basis over disagreements and dispute on the share of stolen and plundered properties in occupied areas of North-East Syria.
Reports are coming through of fighting in Jarablus between the Ahrar al-Sharqiya group and the so-called “military police” established by the Turkish state.
According to reports from the ground, the Turkish army shelled the villages of Kopirlik, Evdokoy and Qizeli in the occupied Gire Spi.
The bombardment targeted civilian settlements and checkpoints held by the Syrian military forces.
Reports say that the aggression killed two Syrian soldiers in the village of Qizeli and injured a Syrian soldier in the village of Evdokoy.
Manbij Military Council released a statement providing details of an operation against a jihadist in Manbij city.
anti-terror units of Manbij Military Council (MMC) carried out an operation against a mercenary confirmed to have infiltrated into the region from Turkish-occupied areas with the aim of perpetrating an attack.
While the mercenary tried to flee from his position  he was killed in the ensuing armed confrontation.
Manbij Military Council pointed to the presence of ISIS in Turkish-occupied areas, recalling that ISIS leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi and his aide Abu Hasan al-Muhajir, who were killed in an operation by the International Coalition, had been staying in the Turkish-occupied Idlib city.
The statement said a rifle and a suicide vest were seized from the ISIS member during the operation, and added that all similar attempts of infiltration from Turkish-occupied areas into North-East Syria were being traced with attention.
Six jihadists have been killed in the latest operations of the Afrin Liberation Forces against the occupation forces.
Afrin Liberation Forces (Hêzên Rizgariya Efrînê, HRE) released a statement
According to the statement, three jihadists were killed in an HRE operation in the village of Omera in Afrin’s Sherawa district on March 26.
On April 1, HRE carried out a sabotage operation against the vehicle of jihadist leader Abu Khalid in the village of Birç Heyder in Sherawa. Khalid and two other jihadists were killed and the vehicle was completely destroyed.
On the same day, a sabotage operation against the jihadist occupiers took place in the Mahmudiyah neighborhood of Afrin, causing damage to property.
According to HRE, the Turkish state-controlled occupying forces continue their attacks on Afrin and Shehba regions Reconnaissance flights continue to take place over the entire region.
In the Northern Syrian city of Qamishlo, Syrian regime forces attacked Internal Security Forces on Tuesday.
The attack was followed by clashes in the area as regime forces attempted to enter the Maqasim area in the neighborhood of Halko.
SDF (Syrian Democratic Forces) fighter Ehmed Mehmud Muslim (Xalo Kobanê) died of a heart attack in Chelebi town of Kobane while on duty.
Muslim was laid to rest at the Şehit Dicle Cemetery of Martyrs on Tuesday with little participation of people as part of measures against Coronavirus pandemic.
Military forces of the Turkish state have set fire to agricultural lands in villages to the West of the Ain Issa town in the Federation of North-East Syria.
all the agricultural lands in the village of Tamamiyah have been burned down and the fire spread to the fields in the villages of Sayda and Maxalaq in a short span of time.
The artillery attacks of the occupation forces on May 10, which targeted the M4 highway and the villages of Qizeli and Shorbenisk in Gire Spi (Tal Abyad) countryside, also left the agricultural lands on fire.
The attacks that targeted the villages of Zanubiyah and Zay Arab in the west of Gire Spi on May 4 evening started a fire in the houses and fields of the local population.
Two mercenaries killed and three others wounded in Shera, while one other was seriously wounded near Mare city.
Afrin Liberation Forces (HRE) released a statement announcing the details of an operation carried out by their fighters in Sherawa district of occupied Afrin.
HRE fighters hit Turkish-backed mercenaries in the village of Basute on April 11.
Two jihadists were killed and another three wounded in the sabotage action.
On April 13, one jihadist was seriously injured as result of a targeted attack by HRE fighters that targeted Turkish-backed gangs in the vicinity of the Mare city.
HRE announced the martyrdom of their fighter Xalid Elo who succumbed to the injuries he had suffered ten days earlier in the resistance against the Turkish occupation.
"Our comrade Efrîn was born in Afrin into a patriotic family.
Under the impression of the resistance against the occupation of Afrin by the Turkish army and its gangs, he joined our ranks.
He fought against the occupation with great anger and showed exemplary courage until his last breath," said the HRE statement released on Wednesday and announced the ID details of the fallen fighter as follows:
Place and Date of Martyrdom: Second stage of the Afrin resistance / 31 March 2020
The Autonomous Administration of the Euphrates region has strongly condemned last night's drone attack on an Asayish checkpoint near Kobanê and called on the guarantor countries of the ceasefire in Syria to act.
"While the rest of the world is committed to the fight against the Coronavirus pandemic and we in the autonomous region of North and East Syria are also trying to fight the virus, Turkey has nothing else to do but attack our regions in the middle of Ramadan.
Russia and the US have a duty to ensure that the ceasefire is respected.
Anti Terrorist Forces, which carried out an operation against ISIS cells in Raqqa and captured Mohammed al-Ali, the financial responsible of the mercenary's cell structures.
According to a statement issued by the Anti Terrorist Forces, the financial officer of ISIS cells, al-Ali, was caught in an operation carried out in Raqqa.
Large amounts of Dollar, TL (Turkey Lira) and SL (Syrian Lira) were reportedly seized on the man as well as 3 mobile phones.
After ISIS cells had carried out a series of attacks in Raqqa recently, military forces increased security measures against the mercenaries in the region.
SDF Commander General Mazloum Abdi calls in a video message for the measures against the spread of the coronavirus adopted by the autonomous administration in northeast Syria to be followed.
The Commander General of the Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF), Mazloum Abdi, has called for increased attention in view of the corona pandemic. In a video message published on Twitter, he calls on the people of northern and eastern Syria to adhere to the protective measures adopted by the autonomous administration:
"As we all observe, the corona virus is spreading rapidly around the world.
Even if there is no confirmed case of infection in our region, the danger is very great.
The Autonomous Administration has decided on measures to counteract this.
We must all adopt and implement these safeguards.
As the possibilities in our region are limited, the most important measure is to protect ourselves from the virus.
It is not enough just to protect the towns, we must at the same time implement the decisions that have been taken to protect our families, our surroundings, our friends from the virus.
We hereby declare that health personnel are our commanders at this critical time.
We welcome the struggle of the health workers and call on the people to stand by them and to abide by the measures adopted to prevent the spread of the virus".
Bodies of 51 people have been unearthed from a mass grave in Raqqa. 51 corpses have been recovered from  in the region of Til Zedan east of Raqqa city.
Yasır Hamis from Raqqa Emergency Response Teams said that the mass grave in Til Zedan area, located between al-Samra and Hamrat villages, contains at least 200 corpses.
According to Hamis, the digging might take a long time as three corpses are exhumed each day.
He added that the remains in the mass grave belong to civilians aged between 25 and 35 who were murdered by ISIS mercenaries during their bloody reign in the city.
Reports of casualties after explosions in Nubl and Homs.
An explosion has occurred in an ammunition depot in Nubl town of Aleppo on Friday.
The huge explosion left five buildings in the surrounding area destroyed, while at least four people died and 16 others wounded.
On the other hand, the Syrian news agency SANA reported successive explosions at a military position in the city of Homs.
A total of 11 mercenaries were killed and 11 others wounded as a result of HRE operations.
Afrin Liberation Forces (HRE) announced the results of their latest operations against the occupation forces in North and East Syria.
“On March 8, our forces carried out a sabotage operation against jihadists in Arab Weran village in the Shera district, killing 3 of them.
On March 9, our forces carried out a sabotage operation against jihadists in Shiltatê village in Shera, killing 2 of them and wounding another 2.
Our forces carried out two separate sabotage operations against the Turkish-backed mercenaries in Mahmudiyah and Ashrafiyah neighborhoods.
Two vehicles were damaged and 2 jihadists wounded in Mahmudiyah while material damage occurred in Ashrafiyah neighborhood.
Our forces raided a checkpoint in Kosa village in the Rajo district, killing 2 jihadists and wounding another 3.
A sabotage action by our forces targeted a checkpoint of occupant jihadists in Abidana village in the bilbile district.
2 jihadists were killed and another wounded here.
On March 19, our forces targeted mercenaries in the Mare city where 1 of them was killed and three others wounded.
A total of 11 mercenaries were killed and 11 others wounded as a result of the mentioned operations.
Separately, the occupant Turkish army has been carrying out continuous bombardments on villages in Afrin and Shehba regions amid an ongoing activity of unmanned aerial vehicles.”
While a hand grenade was thrown at a civilian house in Ain Issa, two vehicles belonging to the Syrian government forces were also set on fire.
Internal Security Forces launched an operation.
There was no loss of life in the attack.
At the same night, two vehicles belonging to the Syrian government forces were set on fire by an unidentified person or persons.
It is not known whether the two attacks are connected.
Internal Security Forces launched an operation following the attacks.
“Observatory activists have documented gross human losses in the ranks of both sides. 18 regime soldiers and loyalists.
11 ISIS members were killed in today’s clashes,
Since the 24th of March 2019, SOHR has documented the killing of at least 401 regime soldiers and loyalists of Syrian and non-Syrian nationalities, including at least two Russians, and 75 Iranian-backed militiamen of non-Syrian nationalities.
Violent explosions have occurred in Afrin city centre Wednesday afternoon.
According to initial reports, the consecutive explosions left 5 dead and many more wounded.
The attack did not result in casualties but caused material damage.
A checkpoint of Internal Security Forces in Qamishlo was attacked Thursday evening.
The attack was allegedly carried out by a group called “Difayî Wetenî” who reportedly targeted the checkpoint on Salam Street with improvised explosives.
The attack did not result in casualties but caused material damage.
The same group had attacked a vehicle of Asayish (public security) forces two weeks ago.
killing an Asayish member and wounding another.
In a village east of the Turkish-occupied town of al-Bab in northern Syria, Islamist proxies set fire to agricultural land.
In the village of Şêx Nasir, east of the Turkish-occupied city of al-Bab, Islamist proxies of the Turkish state have set fire to agricultural land.
To help the villagers extinguish the fire and prevent it from spreading to other areas, units of the self-organized military council of al-Bab moved out.
According to Baran Arîme of the Military Council, the fire was set by militiamen of the Turkish-backed militia "Euphrates Shield ". Wheat fields as well as walnut and olive plantations were affected.
PYD (Democratic Union Party) official Hediye Yusif spoke to ANF about Turkey's attacks on Rojava and the threat posed by the corona virus.
"There is an ongoing war in the Middle East.
Together with the death, looting and flight caused by the war, the virus is crippling virtually all public life.
As the virus spreads in the Middle East, many countries will be further weakened.
In these countries, everything was previously stood against the capitalist system will now be paralysed.
Iran, for example, is under an economic embargo.
Now it is also fighting the virus.
We had foreseen that there would be a social explosion because of the military, political and social blockade of Iran.
A social revolution in Iran would be possible because there was massive social pressure.
Now the virus has paralysed all politics in Iran and the country will be massively weakened.
Turkey has exacerbated the problems of the Middle East
Turkey believed it could realize its neo-Ottoman project.
In this way it has aggravated the Syrian crisis.
It has encouraged terror in its own country and trained jihadists.
These have been sent to Syria and other countries.
They have officially entered Libya.
Turkey is currently experiencing a major crisis, which will continue to deepen.
How will it pretend to be powerful now?
Of course it will continue to try to overcome the crisis through war and violence.
However, the corona virus has spread throughout Turkey, in Syria it is at an impasse, in Idlib it has massive problems and in Libya it has also suffered a loss.
That is why Turkey is also very weak at the moment.
Yet Turkey is attacking northern and eastern Syria.
It is attacking the civilian population of Girê Spî, Serêkaniyê and Afrin.
The expulsion and the targeted change of the demographic structure are continuing.
The attacks on Shehba continue.
In North Kurdistan, the elected local governments are attacked.
The AKP tries to stay in power by force.
While the whole world is fighting against the corona virus, Turkey is fighting against its own people and has them imprisoned.
Turkey is at the end in Libya, Syria and the Middle East.
The AKP is ruining Turkey on the Middle East stage.
The world appeals to Turkey to stop the war in Libya, Syria and against the SDF, but the Turkish state continues its attacks in an attempt to remain in power.
We have set up three health centres for Coranavirus cases and distributed cleaning and disinfection products to the people.
But these measures are completely inadequate.
This region was a war zone and is a good breeding ground for every disease.
There are chemicals in the soil, corpses lie under ruins.
To reduce this risk, we are also trying to disinfect the area.
As refugees in Shehba we appeal to all international health organisations to support the people here and provide support.
We also appeal to the Kurdish people to help the people here.
"Our fighter died in the second phase of the resistance of Afrin on March 21.
Şoreş Efrîn was born in a patriotic family environment in Afrin.
He took part in our fight against occupation and genocide until the last moment and was an honorable fighter.
He was committed to the peoples' revolution for freedom and democracy, opposed all forms of oppression and cruelty and joined the caravan of the martyrs."
Date and Place of Martyrdom: 21 March 2020, second phase of the Afrin resistance
The HRE commemorated all the martyrs in the person of Şoreş Efrîn and expressed their condolences to the families.
Mihemed Xidir Sayil (40), Heysem Yusif Wezzo (25), Cazîye Ali (30) and Yasîn Ramadan (25).
The Turkish army and allied mercenaries have carried out an artillery attack on the villages of Sheikh Hilal and Kafr Naya in Shehba region at around 17:30 local time Thursday afternoon.
The bombardment on Kafr Naya injured a 42-year-old civilian named Xalid Oso and caused material damage on the houses of the residents.
The man has been taken to the Avrin Hospital in the Fafin district.
Martyr Sakine Casızc- Martyr Savaş Amed - Martyr Sema Koçer - Martyr Baran Dersim Revenge Units said they carried out separate actions in Amed, Van and Istanbul .
The Revenge Units issued a written statement containing their monthly balance sheets.
The statement called the current political process "a process in which the AKP MHP fascist mindset wants to implement the values of exploitation and oppression."
The Revenge Units added that the Turkish state has entered a serious crisis and this is "the biggest reason for the isolation imposed on Presidente Apo."
Noting that the solution is Öcalan, the Revenge Units underlined that they will continue to knit the circle of resistance around the Kurdish leader.
detailed the April balance sheet as follows:
"On 1 April 1, self defense units in Van İpekyolu Xacort Sürmeli canal area closed roads and made speeches against isolation. Enemies trying to enter the neighborhood were hit by handmade explosives by our self-defense units.
On 1 April, an action was carried out in Van Edremit Sabaniye, by throwing a bomb to the house of the AKP gang member guards.
On 2 April, an action was carried out with short-barreled weapons at Van İpekyolu Bostaniçi police station. The number of dead and injured could not been established.
On 2 April the neighborhood self-defense units in Karşıyaka District cut roads and made speeches against isolation to the public.
On April 2, two explosives were thrown to the police officers in Istanbul Sultangazi Esentepe. Both police were injured.
On 2 April two vehicles belonging to fascist AKP members were burned and destroyed in Istanbul Küçükçekmece Sefaköy.
On 2 April the building and 2 vehicles of a mining company providing financial support to the AKP-MHP fascist regime in Sultangazi district of Istanbul, were set on fire, and hundreds of thousands of property damage occurred.
On 3 April the workplace of an AKP collaborator was burned down in Ümraniye Mustafa Kemal, Istanbul, and material damage occurred.
On 3 April a house in Gaziosmanpaşa Küçükköy where drugs were sold was burned down.
On 5 April drug dealers were attacked in Amed Sur Melikahmet.
The house where drugs were sold was attacked and made unusable.
On 5 April 4 luxury vehicles belonging to fascist AKP members were burned and destroyed in Istanbul Kadıköy Bostancı.
On 5 April, Turkish police officers patrolled in the Fiskaya neighborhood of Amed's Yenişehir district were attacked with handmade explosives, and the enemy was hit in the action.
On 8 April, a hand-made explosive action was held in front of PTT in the Gazi neighborhood of Istanbul.
On 9 April 4 vehicles belonging to AKP members were burned and destroyed in Istanbul Kadıköy Bostancı.
On 12 and 15 April, 5 vehicles belonging to fascists were burned and destroyed in Kartal district of Istanbul.
On 14 April in the Hacıbekir (Xaçort) District of Van's İpekyolu district, young people protested the invading Turkish army and the KDP for the bombing against the Zînî Wertê region.
On 15 April there was a protest against the AKP councilor in Van İpekyolu Gündoğdu Mahallesi Erbek Sokak. Likewise the house of İdris Surki, a village guard, was attacked and the informer warned.
On 14 April, the invading intelligence officers sent to Van Edremit village were shot at by the self-defense units with hand-made explosives.
The enemy vehicle was damaged and the officers left the area.
On 19 April our self-defense revenge units protested against the attacks on Maxm and Zînî Wertê in Van İpekyolu Xaçort, blocking the streets.
The invading enemy police officers who came to the area were shot at and withdrew .
Our units provided security in the neighborhood until morning.
On 20 April at İpekyolu Yenimahalle, the BİM market and the workplace vehicle belonging to the market were burned and material damage occurred to the building and the vehicle.
On 21 April, the vehicle of AKP collaborator and council member Veysi Mutlu was burned in Van İpekyolu and the vehicle was damaged.
On 22 April at the last stop of Van İpekyolu Karşıyaka Mahallesi, the house of AKP collaborator and guard Mehdi Toran was attacked.
On 22 April a graffiti action with graffiti saying “freedom for prisonerss” was carried out in Van and Istanbul districts.
On 22 April, an action was carried out with hand-made explosives against the police station in the Muradiye district of Amed's Bağlar district.
On 23 April, in Arnavutköy, a bus belonging to AKP collaborator was burned and a commercial taxi was destroyed.
On 24 and 26 April, self-defense units carried out an attack with hand-made explosives and stones against police vehicles in many neighborhoods of Amed's Bağlar district.
On 24 April three vehicles belonging to fascist collaborators were burned down in Esenler.
On 27 April, the vehicle of a fascist AKP council member was burned in Başakşehir. The vehicle was completely destroyed."
Lawyer Ayşegül Çağatay said: "They are trying to cause problems in the cemetery by using the lockdown as an excuse to for imposing limitation on the funeral of Ibrahim Gökçek who was brought to Kayseri."
The body of Grup Yorum member Ibrahim Gökçek, who died two days after calling off the death fast he had carried on for 323 days, was brought to Kayseri for the funeral cemetery accompanied by the police at night.
Gökçek’s lawyer, Ayşegül Çağatay, said that the remains of Ibrahim were kept in the cemetery morgue throughout the night and added: "He had relatives and brothers with him.
Now we are going to take Ibrahim to bury him in Aleppo Hodja Graveyard."
Çağatay also said that they received the information that Gökçek's wife Sultan, who is currently in prison, has been brought to Kayseri to attend the funeral, but the information could not be confirmed.
Çağatay said: "It was said that Sultan Gökçek was brought to Kayseri, but we could not establish any contact with her.
We do not know if she will attend the funeral, but we try to ensure this.
While trying to get the remains from the morgue, it was clear that the authorities try to impose a number of limitation on the funeral using the lockdown as an excuse.
They apparently don't want to allow anyone except the relatives."
After Gökçek's remains were brought last night, a racist group gathered in the Başakpınar district and asked that the burial be not carried out in Kayseri.
The group threatened to "take his remains out and burn them if they do bury him there."
Despite the lockdown, the group was out and was joined by MHP Kayseri Deputy Mustafa Baki Ersoy and Provincial President Serkan Tok.
Ersoy, who came to Başakpınar, made a speech and said: "There is the coronavirus threat, but we are here at this time.
We will do whatever we can."
we have been mobilized against the Covid-19 epidemic, which has influenced all humanity.
Thousands of prisoners kept in the prisons cells and are most vulnerable to the epidemic because of their limited space and opportunities.
They do not have the freedom to decide what to eat or drink, the choice to stay away and carry out social isolation.
The arrival of a possible Coronavirus case to any prison in Turkey would have the same effect as bringing a match light to a gas tank!
The law enforcement prepared by the Turkish state is differentiating between prisoners u the Turkish state is aiming at the execution of political prisoners.
Although the camp is under the so-called protection and maintenance of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, no apparent presence of UNHCR is felt by the community.
Likewise, the Iraqi Government maintains its’ silence.
Makhmur Refugee Camp has been isolated by the Government of Southern Kurdistan since 18 July 2019 until today.
More than 12,000 people living in this camp are fighting the absolute embargo.
Our Yazidi people living in Shengal/Sinjar face new dangers of genocide.
Both Iraqi forces and Haşdi Şabi still maintain their presence there; on top of this the people of Shengal experience a serious embargo.
Likewise, Turkey's threats and many recent airstrikes to Shengal, the current embargo, and the Coronavirus situation are the heralds of new massacres against our people in Shengal.
However, if the international powers continue exhibiting the same attitude they had exhibited until today, this situation will bring new massacres towards our people in Shengal.
Over 150,000 people currently live in Shengal and they are at great risk.
Therefore, we cannot leave the people of Shengal to their own destiny!
The circumstances and facilities in the North and East Syrian Democratic Autonomous Administration areas which consist of seven regions, and has a population of approximately 5 million, are not at a level to meet the coronavirus outbreak. Although the circumstances and the facilities already limited for the residents of Autonomous Administration Areas of North and East Syria, there are also hundreds of thousands of refugees, primarily in the Cizre Region and in the Canton of Hesekê. While some of these refugees migrated from the regime-dominated areas of Syria to Autonomous Administration Areas, a significant part of them took refuge in these areas from Afrin, Serêkaniyê, Girê Spî and Til Temir, which were occupied by the Turkish state.
In addition to the tens of small camps, there are approximately 15 large refugee camps in the Democratic Autonomous Administration Areas. There are also two camps with tens of thousands of women and children, mainly families of ISIS members.
March 21, the Turkish government cut off the water line distributed to Til Temir and city centers of the Hesekê Canton!
Even this approach alone reveals the gravity of the situation.
In the 74 villages of Shehba, liberated from ISIS and in the city of Til Rifat, approximately 100 thousand Shehba inhabitants and over 100 thousand Afrin inhabitants live, who are both locals of these regions and from the Turkish- occupied Şhehba areas. There are five refugee camps in Shehba, where the inhabitants of Afrin had to migrate from Afrin because of the Turkish occupation.
Despite the fact that UNICEF stated  that an essential resource such as water could not be used within the framework of political and military interests.
the Alouk (Elûk) station closed by the Turkish state which used to meet 460 thousand people's water needs.
we are well aware of the tragedy our Rojhilat people have been experiencing.
Eastern Kurdistan / Rojhilat is located in the west of Iran and has a population of 12-15 million.
Under the Covid-19 pandemic conditions, it is essential to urgently end the boycott and embargo policy.
In this context, it is essential that urgent necessary health and food aid be provided with the end of the embargo.
The problems we mentioned above, the methods applied to our people and to the components of Kurdistan are against humanitarian law and are clearly in the form of international war crimes.
The lives of our people who are exposed to embargos, sieges, attacks, and threats are now under the responsibility of states with military and political presence in the region, primarily the United Nations and the Council of Europe.
We urgently demand that international powers and organisations to intervene in this dangerous situation as soon as possible and that our peoples' right to life is guaranteed.
Political parties and non-governmental organisations of Kurdistan in Europe:
PUK (Patriotic Union of Kurdistan)
Tevgêra GORRAN (Change Movement)
KCDK-E (European Kurdish Democratic Societies Congress)
TJK-E (European Kurdish Women Movement)
Kurdistan Communist Party
Socialist Party – South Kurdistan
PADÊ (Freedom and Democracy Party of Yazidis)
Freedom Movement
PYD (Democratic Union Party)
P.D.K.S (Democratic Kurdish Party in Syria)
Kurdistan Socialist Party in Syria
Kurdish Modern Movement of Syria
El Parti (Kurdish Democratic Party of Syria)
Kurdish Reformist Party of Syria
Social Democratic Party of Syria
PYDKS – (Kurdish Democratic Union Party in Syria)
Kurdish Reconciliation Party in Syria
Kurdish Reform Party in Syria
Kurdistan Green Party in Syria
Kurdistan Democratic Party in Syria
Kurdistan Communist Party in Syria
PÎK (Kurdistan Islamic Of Party)
KKP (Kurdistan Communist Party)
Tevgera KAWA (Kawa Movement)
PJAK (Free Life Party of Kurdistan)
Kurdistan Revolutionary Union
KODAR (Democratic Society and Freedom of East Kurdistan)
KJAR (East Kurdistan Women's Society)
Horam Platform
Zagros Platform
Yarsan Platform
Kurdish Fellowship
Kurdish Community in Stuttgart
FEDA (Alevi Federation in Kurdistan)
NAV- YEK (Federation of Yazidi Communities)
Kurdish Center in Berlin
CIK (Kurdish Islamic Council)
Enstituta Kurdî – Almanaya (Kurdish Institute in Germany)
Enstituta Kurdî – Bruksel (Kurdish Institute in Brussels)
MŞD (Shengal Assembly in Diaspora)
YMK (Kurdish Teachers Association)
YES (Syrian Yazidi Association)
Kurdish Community Brandenburg- Berlin
TAJ-E - Umbrella organization of the Yazidi women's councils
DKF-Dresden (German- Kurdish Forum, Dresden)
Public Congress of Mesopotamia
Freedom Party of Mesopotamia
Kurdistan Human Rights Association
Civaka Azad, which is working for Kurds in Germany, will organize an online panel on Thursday regarding the embargo imposed on Maxmur Refugee Camp for over 10 months.
Following the murder of MIT official Osman Köse in Hewlêr, South Kurdistan, on 17 July 2019, the KDP imposed an embargo on Maxmur Refugee Camp using this incident as a pretext.
nobody has been allowed to leave the camp, including seriously ill people, pregnant women, students and those working in the surrounding area.
Civaka Azad (Center for Kurdish Public Opinion Studies), one of the most important Kurdish institutions in Germany, will organise a panel on Thursday, 7 May to draw attention to the human drama in Maxmur.
The panel, which will be attended by German human rights defenders and politicians, will take place online due to the measures taken to counter the coronavirus outbreak.
The panel will start with the speeches of Heike Geisweid and Besra Güler from the German-Kurdish human rights association MAF-DAD who visited the camp last March.
Then it will be the turn of Die Linke party federal parliamentary Zaklin Nastic and Emine Gözen from the Kurdistan Peace and Hope Initiative Association, to speak.
In addition, camp officials from Maxmûr will participate in the panel live and provide information about the latest situation.
The meeting will begin at 7 pm on Thursday 7 May and can be followed at this address:
"There is only one language that the enemy understands.
The ‘Children of Fire Initiative’ released a statement announcing having destroyed ATM machines and windows of banks in Izmir-Karabağlar.
The statement says:
"The terrorist Turkish state is exploiting all the wealth of Kurdistan and transferring it to Turkey.
This money is used to finance bombs that turn all places where Kurds are to be found into a hell."
the "children shot dead in Nusaybin"
, the "families and friends of the young people torn apart by Turkish bombs in Roboski
the victims of the Dersim massacre
the young and old working in the Turkish metropolises.
Activists of a women's initiative sprayed slogans against the isolation of Abdullah Öcalan and hung up banners in Istanbul.
In Küçükçekmece district of Istanbul, a women's initiative called Jinen Tirejen Rojê sprayed slogans against the isolation of Abdullah Öcalan.
hung up banners in exposed places like bridges.
The group announced in a written statement that they would expand their actions in the metropolises of Turkey and Kurdistan until the isolation imposed on Abdullah Öcalan and all political prisoners is lifted.
Ahmet Gökçek, father of Grup Yorum Ibrahim Gökçek, who has been fasting for 312 days demanding the end of repression and bans of music and art, issued a new call to people.
Grup Yorum member Ibrahim Gökçek is on the 312nd day of death fast in the neighborhood of Küçük Armutlu.
His father, Ahmet Gökçek, who waits by his son's bed looking at his body fading away, asked for his son's demands to be listened to.
Speaking to the ANF, Ahmet Gökçek called on people to show sensitivity reminding everyone that time is running out.
Gökçek said that his son is now suffering from a variety of problems connected to the long period of fast.
Ibrahim is still conscious, his son frequently tells him that he has hope and wants people to try  harder for their demands to be accepted.
"These children are not on death fast because they want to die.
These children want to sing and give concerts freely.
It is not normal for an artist to not be able to perform concerts.
It is such a need to produce and give concerts for artists, just as a person needs air and water to live.
They want these bans lifted:
it is difficult to think of something more natural than this."
Emphasizing that they do not expect anything from the state, which is the basis of this injustice, but from the people, Gökçek said that people should make an extra effort to push for the lifting of these bans.
"These children love life, not death.
Helin Bölek loved living, but we lost her.
Ibrahim says the same thing in all our conversations.
He says that they will give concerts again and this time they will address a million people.
He has never lost hope.
Of course, when their demands are met, they will stop this action.
Because they want to live. They want to sing and go back to their concerts."
Ahmet Gökçek emphasized that he expects tens of thousands of people to go to Grup Yorum concerts during this period.
these voices should be much stronger.
Recalling that these are not unacceptable demands.
everyone to do whatever they can.
Grup Yorum has released a statement and announced that its bass guitarist İbrahim Gökçek has ended his death fast on the 323rd day.
"Our resistance has achieved political victory. The whole world has heard about our resistance. We hope that our concert application will come a positive conclusion," the statement of the band has read.
HDP deputy Huda Kaya, CHP deputy Ali Şeker, Workers Party of Turkey (TIP) deputy Baris Atay, Human Rights Association (IHD) Istanbul Branch President Gülseren Yoleri, Human Rights Foundation of Turkey (TIHV) Chair Şebnem Korur Fincancı, HDP Istanbul Provincial co-chair Elif Bulut, HDP former MP Ferhat Encü, artist Pınar Aydınlar and many others joined the statement.
In the mountains of Kurdistan different kinds of edible plants grow in spring.
For many people they are their livelihood.
In Northern Kurdistan, unemployment and poverty are increasing in the Coronavirus crisis.
Wild herbs and edible plants collected in the mountains are the only source of income for many people.
In Van province, the wild vegetables are sold on handcarts in the streets when there is no curfew.
The plants growing in the region are called Pincarê Helîz, Sirmo, Kereng, Gulik, Revas and Spîtank in Kurdish.
In summer they are sold for two to ten liras, in winter they cost between 30 and 150 liras.
Since they are as tasty and healthy as they are inexpensive.
Pincarê Helîz and Sirmo are used as indispensable ingredients in the famous herby cheese of Van.
Revas is a kind of wild rhubarb. It is eaten in May and is considered a medicinal plant.
Kenger is cooked and eaten immediately or pickled for the winter.
Gulik can also be dried for the winter.
Some of these plants are transported to cities like Amed, Adana, Mersin, Istanbul, Izmir, Antalya and Tekirdağ for sale.
Three environmental movements called for action today and tomorrow in around 20 cities against the Ilısu Dam, which will leave Hasankeyf and the Tigris Valley inundated.
The call came from Hasankeyf Coordination, Initiative to make Hasankeyf Live and Mesopotamia Ecology Movement.
Actions are to be held in the following cities:
Hasankeyf / Batman, Istanbul, Ankara, Antalya, Nevsehir, Sine / Eastern Kurdistan, Baghdad / Iraq, Sarajevo / Bosnia and Herzegovina, Berlin / Germany, Hamburg / Germany, Mainz / Germany, Wendland / Germany, Munich / Germany, Nuremberg / Germany , London / United Kingdom, Dundee / Scotland, Copenhagen / Denmark, Manlleu / Catalonia, Rio de Janeiro / Brazil.
As of February 2020, water levels behind the dam were rising at a rate of about 15 centimeters (6 inches) per day.
The reservoir is only about one quarter full and is expected to rise another 50 meters (160 feet) in upcoming months—enough to submerge thousands of nearby caves and nearly all of the Hasankeyf.
The Hasankeyf Coordination said that many demolition projects have been abandoned in the world due to the coronavirus epidemic and demanded the reversal of the decision on the Ilisu project and dismissal of mayors.
In a written statement, the Hasankeyf Coordination said:
"The central government turns this situation into an opportunity while many projects around the world have been abandoned due to the coronavirus."
Reminding that many HDP-run municipalities such as Silvan, Lice, Ergani and Batman, were seized on Monday, the Hasankeyf Coordination noted that municipal seizure threaten public health.
The statement said:
"The occupation and closure of these municipalities, which are fighting against the epidemic, making decisions together with the people in the water and waste problem and providing continuous service for their people to live in a healthy place, are a threat to public health.
The government places local governments under its control through the appointment of trustees to the municipalities of Batman and Diyarbakır, thus ignoring the will of the people."
Destruction that occurred after previous trustee appointments is an indication of this.
The fact that the appointment of the trustee took place 12 hours after the decision to postpone the payment of the water bills by the democratically and freely elected Batman Municipality shows that the trustee policy is also against the right to water.
The government continues its policies against the right to water even under these conditions."
"Let us remind you that only five of the 199 villages planned to be completely or partially submerged have been built for new settlements.
The Hasankeyf Coordination demanded that "the decision to appoint trustee be reverted and water retention in Ilısu Dam and HEPP is stopped immediately."
"To date, 35 villages have been flooded by the Ilisu dam. The water has now reached Hasankeyf. The site belongs on a universal level to the most important cultural and natural heritage of mankind.
"Since August, people have been taken out of Hasankeyf. Forty families still live in the town because they have no other place to live and do not know where to take their animals.
The Initiative to Keep Hasankeyf Alive and Mesopotamia Ecology Movement called on social movements,  for the defense Hasankeyf and the Tigris River on 7 and 8 June.
The Turkish government announced that on 10th June 2019 it will start filling the Ilisu Dam reservoir.
The HPG published the names of two guerrilla fighters who died on Mount Cudi in Şırnak.
Date and Place of Martyrdom: 15 April 2020 / Cudi
Çayan Koçgirî's family is from Sivas, but that he was born and raised in Istanbul.
He saw the extermination campaign directed by the Turkish state against the Kurdish people and was himself affected by the repression.
During his military service in Gever (Yüksekova) he deserted the Turkish army and joined the guerrilla.
Çayan Koçgirî was known for his commitment and sincerity and fought in Shengal and Botan, among other places.
He left for Shengal in 2014 to protect the Yazidi population from the ISIS.
He then went to Botan in Northern Kurdistan where he developed and became a successful guerrilla commander.
Mervan Kerkûkî was born into a patriotic family in Kirkuk in Southern Kurdistan.
He saw the guerrilla struggle as the only way to liberate Kurdistan and end colonialism.
He joined the HPG in 2016 and later went to Botan at his own request.
The HPG expressed its sympathy to the relatives and the patriotic people of Kurdistan and vowed to continue the fight of the fallen.
HPG commemorated guerrilla fighter Eriş Avent Pasin, who froze to death in a snowstorm in the Serhat region.
Date and Place of Martyrdom: 21 October 2019 / Serhat
"I want to fight against the occupying forces in the place where I was first struck and where I faced attempts to be estranged from myown reality.”
This was the wish of Êrîş Avent Pasin when he joined the guerrilla to resist the occupation in Serhat, where, as in many other areas of the region, a policy of assimilation and Turkification was pursued after the foundation of the Turkish Republic and was further advanced with the emergence of the Kurdish liberation movement.
"Our friend Eriş Avent Pasin lived with passion for freedom in the mountains of Kurdistan. He came here to realize his dreams. Already in the first moment of his participation in the guerrilla Eriş started to learn the knowledge of the mountains. He endowed himself with the philosophy of Abdullah Öcalan and became an exemplary militant, always setting a good example and conscientiously fulfilling the tasks entrusted to him. In view of his loss, we express our condolences to the family of Eriş and the patriotic people of Kurdistan. We promise to realize the dreams of our fallen friends and achieve freedom."
The condolence tent which is one of the focus points in the transmission of coronavirus, infecting up to 84 people in the village of Ortanca in Van, was put up by radical religious groups known for beating people with sticks.
The village of Ortanca in Ipekyolu district of Van was quarantined on 5 May after the increase in the number of coronavirus cases following the putting up of a condolence tent last week.
It was established that the condolence tent had become a focus of transmission and 84 people proved positive.
while in the city center 356 cases were reported.
Those who set up condolence tent in the village of Ortanca are part of a group which, although banned, meets under the name of 'Tevhid Magazine' in Van and openly say to be pro-ISIS.
These people who have been operating in Van for many years set up a condolence tent thus helping the coronavirus to spread to the city.
The group is known for having attacked people with sticks and axes in Van many times in the past years.
It is known that these groups operate especially in Van city center and the Erciş district.
Images of these groups with sticks in their hands had previously been published in the press.
Who gave permission to set up the condolences tent?
Six public officials were investigated after the recent news, with police and governorship remaining silent.
In a written statement issued today, Van Governorate said that the virus had spread from the condolence tent put up in Ortanca.
It is not clear who authorised the opening of the condolence tent as it is forbidden to set up such gathering places during the pandemic.
A person who lives in the village and does not want to be named said that the banned group recently came to their village claiming to be there for delivering aid.
Apparently the condolence tent was put up for person who died last week and was said to be close to this group.
Civil Defense Units (YPS) targeted a police station in Amed with explosives.
In another action, YPS set a truck of an "AKP collaborator" on fire in the Istanbul district of Esenyurt on 28 April, according to the statement.
The Press Office of People’s Defense Forces (HPG-BIM) released a statement announcing continued airstrikes by the Turkish army against South Kurdistan.
On April 4, Turkish jets struck the Sinine area in Xakurke region and the areas of Mamresho and Werxele in Avashin region.
guerrillas suffered no casualties as a result of these bombardments.
In a joint statement about the attacks in Zînî Wertê, Rojhilat intellectuals and artists said that a civil war should not be allowed in the region.
"If dialogue is not developed to solve the crisis in Zînî Wertê, the Kurdish people will lose again.
A possible civil war will not only undermine people's trust in political parties, but it will also deeply affect the friends of the Kurdish people."
The statement added that the Kurdish press should approach the events with responsibility, it was stated that media could help creating an environment for dialogue among parties.
The signatories of the statement are as follows:
HPG guerrilla Agit İpek lost his life in the countryside of Dersim province on 23 May 2017. His family has been denied the remains of their son despite their endless efforts and applications since.
The family was first told that there was no corpse, then they were called in May 2019 and told that the corpse had been found.
The family therewith went to Dersim and gave blood sample for a DNA test which then revealed that the corpse belonged to İpek.
The remains of İpek will be buried in the village of bağlı Elmabahçe (Pizyan) in Mardin’s Artuklu district.
The Press Office of People’s Defense Forces (HPG-BIM) announced the details of an operation carried out by YJA Star (Free Women’s Troops) guerrillas against Turkish troops stationed in southern Kurdistan, northern Iraq.
The operation was carried out at 13:00 on April 6 as part of the ‘Battle of Heftanin Revolutionary Campaign’ ongoing in the region.
while the positions and shelters of the Turkish forces were struck effectively.
the number of casualties left here couldn’t be clarified.
Guerrillas hit Turkish soldiers in Hakkari countryside while the Turkish army shelled guerrilla zones in southern Kurdistan.
“At 11 am on May 11, our forces targeted a Turkish military unit stationed on Hill Stuna in Çukurca (Çele) district of Hakkari.
While the positions and shelters of the enemy forces were struck effectively, the number of soldiers killed or wounded here couldn’t be clarified.”
On the other hand, HPG reported continued air raids by the Turkish army in southern Kurdistan, northern Iraq.
Accordingly, Turkish jets and attack helicopters shelled the vicinity of the Mirxana village in Sidekan region at 16:00 on May 12 and 01:00 on May 13.
The bombardment caused material damage on the vineyards and orchards of the local people.
At 12:00 on May 12, Turkish jets bombarded the surroundings of the Kesta village in Metina region.
Guerrillas suffered no casualties as a result of the attack.
HPG/YJA Star guerrillas hit Turkish forces in Amed countryside, killing 5 elements of the Turkish army.
5 turkish military elements killed in amed
guerrillas carried out a sabotage operation against a vehicle transporting members of Turkish secret service MIT and counter-guerrilla forces near the village of Savuşka in Pasur district of Amed .
The guerrilla action on April 8 left 2 MIT and 3 counter-guerrilla members dead.
While the involved guerrilla unit returned to their base safely.
the Turkish army launched an operation in the area which was ended inconclusively on April 23.
Distortion by the turkish state and media
HPG stated that the fascist Turkish state was resorting to dirty methods in its efforts to destroy the guerrilla forces.
“A part of this network is the MIT and counter-guerrilla that conduct reconnaissance, monitoring, tracking and detection activities in the deployment areas of the guerrillas.
Once this agent-counter structure obtains information on guerrilla activities, the Turkish state forces head for these areas and take action to destroy the guerrilla.
The colonialist Turkish state and media have portrayed these people as civilians in an attempt to conceal the truth and spreading lie propaganda.
The persons targeted in this action were not civilians but members of the agent-counter structure organised by the fascist AKP-MHP regime against Freedom Guerrillas.”
As part of the Martyr Bager and Martyr Ronya Revolutionary Initiative, guerrillas hit the Girê outpost in Hakkari’s Çelê at 7 am on May 2.
While the positions and shelters of Turkish forces in the complex were struck effectively, the number of those killed or wounded here couldn’t be clarified.
Operation in kağizman
HPG said that the Turkish army launched an operation in the countryside of Kağızman district in Kars on April 29-30.
The bombardments carried out by the Turkish army during the operation led to the martyrdom of four guerrillas, whose ID details will be announced at a later date.
"We do not tolerate you alive or dead.
The Turkish state systematically destroys guerrillas’ graves in Kurdistan.
Kurdish politician Leyla Güven, who is also a member of parliament for the HDP and co-chair of the civil society organisation DTK , spoke to ANF about the background of the state's brutal actions.
Leyla Güven opened the conversation with a quote from Albert Camus: "If you want to get to know a country, look at how the people there die.
In her opinion there is something missing from this saying: "You also have to look at how the dead are treated.
At the moment graves are systematically destroyed in Kurdistan.
Burials and mourning of the dead are not only a legal question, it's a question of morality and conscience."
Although it was a terribly painful situation, his mother expressed her condolences to the whole Kurdish people.
Hacı Lokman Birlik, Mother Taybet, Ekin Van, Cemile Çağırga and the bodies of many others were mutilated in a similar way to send a message to the population.
But our people never gave up their resistance."
Even if a grave does not change anything about death, preventing the mourning of the dead causes a social trauma.
That's the purpose of the state.
But what it doesn't count on is that with the trauma comes rage.
Mass graves left behind by the ISIS are still being discovered today.
This misanthropic and especially misogynistic organization has systematically mutilated corpses and destroyed cemeteries.
With a mentality that allows gravestones to be smashed, it does not matter whether Ramadan is or not. It is a crime forbidden by all religions.
In Islam, everything that belongs to man has a value.
Everyone is part of the family of God, they say.
The representatives of the state with its concept of annihilation cannot even adhere to the religion in which they supposedly believe.
This practice is unbearable, especially for the relatives.
A mother in Bingöl has announced that she will keep watch at her daughter's grave so that it is not destroyed.
The destruction of the graves is intended to intimidate the population.
It is a signal to the people: 'Forget your language, your identity, your culture.
We will not tolerate you dead or alive’
. But we know that our people and especially the brave Kurdish mothers have been fighting an epochal struggle for decades.
We know the Mothers of Peace, the Saturday Mothers, the Roboski Mothers.
The entering and leaving of four major cities in Northern Kurdistan was prohibited because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Local quarantine measures are in place in 16 cities in the region.
only 500 tests were conducted in the city of Amed with a population of almost two million.
In Şırnak, 600 to 700 people are in hospital or quarantine.
In Urfa 20 people tested positive, three people died from the virus, while 150 people are in hospital under suspicion of corona.
In Amed, 148 people are in hospital because of Coronavirus. Four sick people are in acute danger of their lives and are in intensive care. In the last two days nine inhabitants of the city have died of the virus.
Şiyar Güldiken, co-chair of the Union of Health and Social Service Workers (SES) in Amed told the Mezopotamya news agency (MA) that about 500 tests had been conducted in the city.
"This figure, however, is not certain as there is unfortunately no transparent procedure.
Many more tests should be conducted.
Worldwide experience shows that the more tests, the more cases are detected.
The more accurately the number of new infections is recorded, the faster it can be brought under control."
Şırnak: Up to 700 people in quarantine
In the province of Şırnak, the number of infections is increasing day by day.
According to information from the medical association of Şırnak, 600 to 700 people are in quarantine in the dormitories and hospitals.
Since the day before yesterday, 16 people have tested positive in the city.
The doctors in the city complain about a lack of protective equipment.
The health centres lack masks, gloves, aprons and protective goggles.
No test centre in Urfa
The Medical Chamber of Urfa reports that 150 people with suspected corona are in the hospitals. The Chamber says that health authorities in the region are taking the pandemic lightly and have still not set up a test centre in Urfa.
Is there a discrimination?
HDP MP Garo Paylan said it is absolutely incomprehensible why, in a city like Amed with its two million inhabitants, only 500 people have been tested in the past 27 days.
Local quarantine in 16 cities
Apart from the ban on entering the four major cities in Northern Kurdistan, local quarantine measures were imposed in the following 16 provinces:
Adiyaman: The village of Şahintepe in the district of Kahta
Ağrı: The villages of Melehesen, Mêrze, Xirbesork, Cemalvêrdi, Hecîbotî, Şemê and Hacıyusuf in the Tutak district
Amed: The village of Bistîn (Aynalı) in Çermik district, a rural neighborhood in Silvan; the hamlet of Taştepe in Ergani district
Batman: The village of Altındere and three other localities in the district of Sason
Bingöl: The village of Döşlüce in the Adaklı district
Bitlis: The village of Koyunlu in Mutki district, and the villages of Yumurtatepe, Örenlik, Çanakdüzü and Dönertaş in Tatvan district
Dersim: The village of Geçitveren in Mazgirt district
Erzincan: The villages of Muratboynu, Eskibağlar and Gediktepe im Kemah district
Kars: The neighborhood of Merkez in Dağpınar town, Türkmeşen village in Digor district, Erdağı village in Susuz district, Karabağ village in Kağızman district and Benliahmet village in Selim district
Malatya: The village of Ilıca in Darende district, the Egnir village in Arapgir district, Kozdere village in Hekimhan disiitrict, and 5 more neighborhoods in the districts of Darende, Hekimhan, Arapgir, Pütürge and Kuluncak
Mardin: The village of Yetkinler im Mazıdağı district and the village of Derinsu in Derik district
Muş: The villages of Yazla, Alagün und Yüzbaşı
Siirt: The villages of Akgeçit, Taşyaka, Kayahisar, Kayalı, Bindal and Ankebir
Sivas: The villages of Şenbağlar, Boyalı, Dilekli, Kurşunlu, Yağcılar, Boyalıca, Gökçekaş, Üyük, Darıkol und Tuzlagözü
Urfa: Four neighborhoods in Suruç and other central districts
Van: The villages of Ilıcak, Belliyurt, Esenyamaç and Örmetaş in Başkale district; Han village in Çaldıran district; Çemik and Tellikaya hamlets in Çatak district.
The HPG published the identity of two guerrilla fighters who died in Ağrı countryside last year.
According to the statement, Hamide Ali, who was born in Kobanê in Northern Syria, and Narin Akçay, who was born in Istanbul, died on 9 November 2019 in an air raid of the Turkish army on the area of Kirê Hallac in Doğubayazıt district.
ID details of the two guerrillas are as follows:
First-Last Name: Hamide Ali
Place of Birth: Kobani
Mother's-Father's Name: Yaze – Abdurrahman
Date and Place of Martyrdom: 9 November 2019 / Ağrı
Nom de Guerre: Tekoşin Şoreş
First-Last Name: Narin Akçay
Place of Birth: Istanbul
Mother's-Father's Name: Nurcan – Abdulkerim
Date and Place of Martyrdom: 9 November 2019 / Ağrı
Our friends Bahar and Têkoşîn joined our ranks with full conviction and faith in the resistance in order to take part in the struggle against the assimilation and annihilation policy of the occupying state and the capitalist system, which is implemented against our people.
Part of their deep belief in the liberation movement was a keen awareness of the effective warfare in all regions of Kurdistan.
Bahar and Têkoşîn were selfless personalities, endowed with the women's liberation ideology developed by Rêber Apo (Leader Öcalan), who successfully carried out their leading mission in all areas of resistance.
They fought in every moment against the occupation mentality and lost their lives in resistance against the aggressors.
In view of the loss of our friends Bahar and Têkoşîn, we express our sincere condolences to their relatives as well as to the whole people of Kurdistan.
We promise to realize the ideals of all our martyrs and crown the resistance with victory.”
Two soldiers have been killed in an operation by HPG on a covert military unit of the Turkish army in the countryside of Amed.
According to the Press Office of the People's Defense Forces (HPG), two soldiers of the Turkish army died in a guerrilla operation in Amed (Diyarbakir) countryside.
"Two soldiers were killed in the enemy unit, which was effectively hit from close range.
The Turkish occupying army then removed the dead soldiers from the area in civilian vehicles and withdrew without success."
Turkish police attacked the demonstration and detained 5 people. The detainees, who include 2 minors, have been remanded in custody and sent to Van T Type Closed Prison.
Guerrillas continue inflicting blows on the occupant Turkish army.
Guerrillas from YJA Star (Free Women’s Troops) targeted Turkish soldiers in Heftanin region of guerrilla-held Medya Defense Zones in southern Kurdistan, northern Iraq.
The Press Office of People’s Defense Forces (HPG-BIM) released a statement detailing the action which was carried out as part of the ‘Battle of Heftanin.
According to the statement,
HPG announced the identity of three guerrilla fighters who died during an action against the Turkish military in the southern Kurdistan region of Heftanin.
The Press Centre of the People's Defense Forces (Hêzên Parastina Gel,HPG) has published the names of three guerrilla fighters who died on 27 April during an action in Heftanin region in southern Kurdistan, northern Iraq. In its statement dated 27 April, HPG had reported that nine soldiers of the Turkish army were killed and large amounts of military material were confiscated as guerrillas hit a Turkish army position on Hill Şehîd Şêxmus, while three guerrilla fighters lost their life.
The full identities of the fallen guerrillas are as follows:
Date and Place of Martyrdom: 25 April 2020 / Heftanin
Guerrilla fighter Mervan Amed was born in 1996 in Amed into a patriotic family and was forced at a young age to go to a Turkish boarding school.
Nevertheless he got to know the resistance and the freedom fight had a great influence on him.
In 2014 he joined the guerrilla.
Çekdar Amed was born in Amed and grew up in a patriotic family.
He witnessed the oppressive policies of the state and experienced them firsthand.
He joined the freedom movement in 2015.
Tolhildan Roza Botan
He joined the guerrilla as a student in 2013 and became one of the young commanders of the HPG.
HPG published the names of five guerrilla fighters who died last in the Zagros Mountains.
"During an air raid by the Turkish occupying army on 13 May 2019, Commander Awat and our companions Brusk, Hebun, Numan and Şoreş fell as martyrs," the HPG statement said.
The identities of the martyrs are as follows:
Date and Place of Martyrdom: 13 May 2019 / Zagros
The HPG expressed their condolences to the relatives and patriotic people of Kurdistan and vowed to continue the fight of the martyrs.
At least 23 soldiers of the Turkish army have been killed in guerrilla actions in Heftanin.
The Press Centre of the People's Defense Forces (HPG) has announced details of the latest guerrilla actions in Southern and Northern Kurdistan. According to the statement, a total of 23 soldiers of the Turkish army have been killed.
Heftanin
In Heftanin, a region within the Medya Defense Zones in Southern Kurdistan, guerrillas targeted a Turkish army military unit stationed on Hill Partîzan on 5 May.
positions and shelters on the hill were placed under effective fire, while the number of dead and injured could not be determined.
On the same day the Turkish Air Force bombed the area of Şehîd Kendal, one day later the Hill Qesrokê in Heftanin.
The guerrillas did not suffer any casualties.
On May 6, the guerrillas targeted a Turkish military unit stationed on Hill Merganiş in Çukurca district of Hakkari. Two soldiers were killed and one position of the Turkish army was destroyed.
On May 2, the Turkish army launched a military operation on Mount Cudi in Şırnak countryside which covered the areas of Deriyê Xendekê, Deriyê Hirçê and Kasaphane. The operation was ended without any results on May 5.
On May 5, guerrillas targeted a military post located between the areas of Dader and Siwaro in the region of Mount Cudi. While the number of dead and injured could not be determined, the Turkish army shelled the area at random with mortar and howitzer fire.
On the same day, the HPG carried out a sabotage operation near the village of Osyan in Besta region.
The action, which was directed against infantry soldiers and an Amarok-type vehicle on its way to a military camp on a hill, left five soldiers dead.
In another sabotage action, guerrillas targeted a military unit that came to the scene for intervention.
One soldier was killed as a result.
The guerrilla unit involved was able to withdraw without losses.
The Turkish army has been setting ambushes along the international road between Bazid (Doğubeyazıt) district of Ağrı and Gürbulak district of Van province.
After a surveillance, guerrillas targeted this unit and targeted them in their armored vehicles on 5 May.
An armored vehicle was destroyed and 15 soldiers were killed during the action, after which the Turkish army transported away the casualties in ambulances.
The Turkish army also launched a military operation in the area where fierce fighting broke out between the Turkish army and the guerrillas.
Date and Place of Martyrdom: 6 May 2020 / Ağrı
HPG said that Azad Tetwan was born in Tatvan district of Bitlis province and grew up in a patriotic family.
He got to know the liberation struggle at a very early age and joined the guerrilla in 2005.
In the mountains of Kurdistan, he fought in many areas and was operating in the Serhat region recently.
The HPG described him as a tireless commander who fulfilled his duties with a great sense of responsibility.
Birindar Maku and Piro Serhed also got to know the liberation struggle in their youth and experienced the extermination campaign against the Kurdish people.
They joined the guerrilla struggle in order to resist against the genocidal practices targeting the Kurdish people.
In a sabotage action of the HPG on a military area of the Turkish army in the province of Şırnak, a counter-guerrilla member was killed and several soldiers were injured.
People’s Defense Forces (HPG) Press Office released a statement announcing the results of a sabotage action carried out by guerrillas against a newly built military station in the area of Dadare in Şırnak’s Silopi district on April 14.
After the action, the Turkish army removed the dead and injured soldiers from the area in armoured vehicles. The guerrilla unit that carried out the action reached its base area unharmed.
Airstrikes on Qandil and Xakurke
Regarding the recent Turkish army air raids on the Medya Defense Zones, the press office of HPG reports:
Turkish jets bombed the areas of Hill Hiwa, Hill Sheikh Nasır, Kozine and Bepalan villages and Zine Werte gorge in Qandil region on April 14 night.
The guerrillas did not suffer any casualties, HPG said.
three guerrilla fighters  died in the air attack of the Turkish army on April 15 on Zînê Wertê in Southern Kurdistan.
The ID details of the three guerrillas are as follows:
Date and Place of Martyrdom: 15 April 2020 / Qandil
Xeyrî Garzan was born in 1976 in Kozluk district of Batman province in Northern Kurdistan as the son of a patriotic family.
Already in his early years he was confronted with the reality of Kurdistan and the deep old enmity against the region and its people.
"On his way to the truth, Xeyrî Garzan, with deep faith and a great claim to freedom, advanced powerfully, consistently and successfully.
he devoted himself to the various services and tasks with the guerrillas to fulfil them.
After various stations in the Medya Defense Zones, his last place of assignment was the Qandil region.
He was considered a pioneer and a driving force for innovation and solution processes among the guerrillas. With his modest personality, he was a source of morality and had long since established a throne in the hearts of his comrades.
The memory of him will always point us in the right direction and illuminate the path to be followed."
Agirî Qendîl came from Merîwan in Eastern Kurdistan.
He was also born into a patriotic family that felt connected to its roots and Kurdish patriotism. Agirî Qendîl got to know the Kurdish liberation movement at a young age.
In 2017 he decided to join the ranks of the guerrilla.
"He was active in many different areas, always fulfilled his tasks with a high degree of responsibility, was courageous, selfless and determined.
Until the last moment of his life he fought for the freedom of his people and finally joined the Caravan of Martyrs,".
Sîpan Şahin was born in 1992 in the West Kurdistan town of Serêkaniyê.
Sîpan Şahin became acquainted with the Kurdish liberation movement at an early age.
he joined the guerrilla in 2012.
"Within a very short period of time, our friend Sîpan developed into an excellent fighter who devoted himself to the tasks of the guerrilla with a distinct consciousness and selflessness.
He always fought on the front lines of the resistance and earned a firm place in the hearts of his friends even during his lifetime".
we deeply regrets the loss of the three fighters and expresses their sincere condolences to their relatives and the patriotic people of Kurdistan;
"We promise to carry the flag of freedom handed over to us into victory."
Children in Kurdistan continue suffering violence from those on duty in the institutions of the Turkish state. In Amed, municipal police forces have abused a boy who was picking up waste paper with a handcart.
The incident occurred just a few days after a massive police assault on children playing in Nusaybin became known, which caused great outrage.
In Amed, people happened to be filming how the municipal police in Sur perpetrated violence against the boy. The underage paper collector was beaten, his handcart was confiscated. The footage, which is widely circulated in the social media, shows the boy sitting on the floor, panting, with people around trying to help him.
After the deadly air raids of April 15 on the Maxmur refugee camp and the area of Zinê Wertê in the Qandil region in South Kurdistan.
"The AKP/MHP government is trying to use the days of the Corona pandemic as a springboard for its aggressive militaristic policy and is pursuing a new occupation and attack plan.
It is no coincidence that the operations of the Turkish occupying army in the settlement areas in Zinê Wertê are being increased and expanded at the same time as the deployment of KDP military forces to the region.
The Ministry of Peshmerga informed that these forces were the Seventh Infantry Battalion sent to the area at the request of the Commission for the Battle against Coronavirus.
It is being pretended that the transfer of troops is a humanitarian measure against the pandemic.
This is to conceal the truth.
The deployment is not about health, it is creating a new threat to human life.
The action increases the risk of armed conflict between the Kurdish parties.
The Turkish state is pursuing this policy quite openly anyway and is attacking Maxmur and other areas. If the KDP does not want to be one of these forces, it must revise the steps it has taken so far."
The KJK pointed out that the PUK (Patriotic Union of Kurdistan) has opposed the situation and that the Seventh Infantry Battalion consists mainly of KDP forces. The Zinê Wertê area, however, is under the control of the PUK.
"We are political organisations that have witnessed the great suffering experienced by the Kurdish people because of inner-Kurdish conflicts.
With its insidious plans, our enemy wants to eliminate a force that is waging a liberation struggle and tries to protect the people from occupation.
In order to achieve this, it wants to secure the help of other Kurdish forces and integrate them into its dirty plan.
No Kurdish political movement should get involved in these machinations.
All political forces that take part in this intrigue will sooner or later be condemned by history and by our people for their crime".
called for action to prevent an "occupation by the enemies of the Kurds".
Fighter jets of unknown origin have flown over the refugee camp Maxmur in Southern Kurdistan.
During the midday hours there were intensive air movements above the Maxmur refugee camp.
It is not known to which state the fighter jets belong.
On April 15, three women were killed in Maxmur in a drone attack by the Turkish army.
The ISIS has also increased its presence in the region in recent days.
The HPG Press Center announced the identity of the guerilla who fell martyr on 22 March in Mardin.
"In our statement dated 1 April 2020, we shared with the public the information that one of our friends fell martyr as a result of clashes between the occupying Turkish army and our forces in the region of Omerya in Mardin on 22 March."
HPG announced the ID details of the fallen guerrillas as follows:
Date and Place of Martyrdom: 22 March 2020 / Mardin
The HPG statement continued: "Born in Amed in 1988 as the child of a patriotic family, our comrade Renas met the Freedom Movement at a young age.
Once he realised that the freedom and hopes of the Kurdish people pass through the free mountains decided that he would walk on this path and joined the PKK movement in 2011.
Our friend Renas sought to recreate himself on the basis of his loyalty to Leader Apo and the Kurdish people, and always improved himself and trained as a skilled warrior."
Comrade Renas, a leading and talented commander, came to the fore with his fighting.
He successfully fulfilled his duties until the last moment and joined the caravan of the immortal martyrs.
We express our condolences to all the patriotic people, especially Comrade Renas' precious family, and promise that we will carry the flag of freedom that our martyrs handed over to us to victory."
actions continued by guerrillas and attacks by the Turkish army.
According to the statement, guerrillas carried out a sabotage action against an armored vehicle of the Turkish army on its way to Amutka outpost in Dersim’s Hozat district at 13:30 on May 11.
Four soldiers were killed and two others wounded as a result of the action.
after which the guerrilla unit returned to their base unharmed.
Turkish jets shelled the Sinune area in Xakurke region and Hill Sor in Avashin region on May 11 night, said HPG and added that the bombardments did not result in any casualties in guerrilla ranks.
Guerrilla Zinar Sason has died in an air attack.
According to the Press Office of the People's Defense Forces (HPG), guerrilla commander Zinar Sason (Fadıl Ekinci) has been martyred. He was seriously injured in a Turkish air raid on the Medya Defense Zones on 6 April and did not survive despite all efforts.
His personal details are as follows:
Mother's-Father's Name: Remziye – Mehmet Tayyip
Date and Place of Martyrdom: 6 April 2020 / Zap
The number of coronavirus cases is gradually increasing due to the lack of precautions in Van. In the village of Örmetaş in Başkale there has been a surge in cases, with 44 confirmed.
The coronovirus outbreak is spreading also due to limited number of tests available in Van and its districts.
The number of cases has approached 200 also because the people coming to Van were not quarantined and not adequately tested.
Nearly 10 people have lost their lives in Van so far.
A case in point is that of the village of Örmetaş in Başkale district.
The number of cases began to increase rapidly in the village of Örmetaş. The village was quarantined on 7 April after detecting coronavirus in a citizen who had come from Istanbul on the same day. However, despite the quarantine imposed on the village, no test was performed to citizens.
The number of cases increased to 44 within one month.
It was in fact established that not only one person but several had previously come to the village from Istanbul.
A that point the State began looking for the 'guilty'.
The first to fall was the village headman (mukhtar), dismissed by the governor.
The mukhtar hit back, saying that in fact he had reported that people had come from Istanbul to the village.
The HPG Press Center announced that Tekoşer Gever (Müslih Ike) fell martyr following the Turkish air attack.
"The invading Turkish state, which increased its attacks against our movement and our people in 2019 and tried to keep itself alive by promising of ending the PKK through new occupation operations, has suffered a great defeat and failure given the great resistance of the Kurdistan guerrilla.
Occupation operations developed for Northern and Southern Kurdistan have been spoiled by the resistance of the Kurdistan guerrillas.
The architects of this historical resistance carried out against the occupying Turkish state have undoubtedly been our heroic martyrs.
Tekoşer Gever (Müslih Ike), was one of them. He fell martyr following a Turkish air attack on Medya Defense Areas on 20 August 2019."
The HPG released the full identity of guerrilla Tekoşer Gever:
Code Name: Tekoşer Gever
Name Surname: Müslih İke
Place of Birth: Hakkari
Mother - Father Name: Mahbup - Ahmet
Date and Place of Martyrdom: 20 August 2019 / Medya Defense Areas
"Comrade Tekoşer joined in the Kurdistan Freedom Struggle in 1993 at a young age and worked with active devotion on the war field for many years.
Tekoşer, who has been very attached to his people, party, martyrs and Leader Apo since the first day he joined the struggle, has become an exemplary fighter, commander and comrade.
Guerrillas continue inflicting blows on the occupant Turkish army in Kurdistan territory.
Guerrillas targeted the Turkish military elements in the area between Deriyê Dawetiya and Martyr Şêxmus regions.
One construction equipment was destroyed a member of counter-guerrilla forces was killed in the operation.
The involved guerrilla unit returned to their base without harm.
The aid in the framework of the Covid-19 pandemic does not reach the majority of the population in Northern Kurdistan, but only the supporters of the ruling party AKP.
Although Turkish president Tayyip Erdoğan is said to have already helped more than two million people, thousands of poor and unemployed families in the province of Van receive no state support whatsoever.
Erdoğan had declared that needy citizens should apply to governors or land councils to get help.
In Van, thousands of people have so far turned to these bodies without success.
At the offices of governors, most of the needy were turned away directly.
The vast majority of those who receive support, have already been designated or directly nominated on lists by the AKP provincial association and its regional divisions.
One worker said that he was the only earner of his family of eight and is now unemployed.
"We are in a very difficult situation.
I went to the district governor’s office to get help.
No help is given to the poor and unemployed.
Those who are given help were put on lists by the AKP and their names were given to the district governorates.
They are only people from the provincial and district associations and collaborators of the AKP."
The HDP Women's Assembly announced that on 25 November women would take to streets against the AKP-MHP anti-women and occupation policies.
The HDP Women's Assembly issued a call to mark the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women on 25 November.
The statement said: "The attacks against our gains, rights, freedom, our lives, and our presence in the public sphere continue to exacerbate day after day.
AKP-MHP male power is attacking women who struggle for women's freedom in an unprecedented way."
Speakers on behalf of Sara Women’s Union and Women’s Peace Initiative reiterated their call to the French state to shed light on the killings as it would otherwise be an accomplice as what was indicated by its silence.
Speaking to ANF, Swedish and Kurdish women joining the demo reiterated their call for those responsible for Paris killings to be brought to trial.
Johanna Suh, who joined the demonstration with a banner reading “Jin jiyan azadi” (woman, life, freedom) evaluated the triple murder as a threat against all women.
“As a feminist, I protest the pressures against women”.
It murdered Kurdish freedom fighters.
Our task is to keep the memories of martyrs alive and to make sure that the Turkish massacre is not forgotten.”
Moderat (Conservative) Party Councilor Makbule Çolak emphasised that the Turkish state sought to intimidate the Kurdish women by killing Sakine, Fidan and Leyla in Paris.
They tried to break our will and deter us but they will never succeed as we continue our struggle in an even more determined manner.”
Cansu Ertaş from the Women's Platform in Ankara talks about the state's fear of women's organisation.
"In 2019, 474 women were murdered.
The government has the responsibility to prevent these murders and ensure that the murderers receive their deserved punishment, but instead it continues its misogynist policy, does not implement the Istanbul Agreement and turns a blind eye to the cruel murders of women.
For centuries, society has been dominated by a patriarchal order.
This is now visible, because we fight against it, we have risen up against it.
Women have been the target of male violence and murder for centuries.
One reason why this violence continues to escalate in Turkey and worldwide is, of course, the economic crisis.
Because of the crisis, men are killing themselves as well as their women.
These are also murders.
And this is only the economic dimension of violence against women.
An attempt is made to press women into a certain norm and to influence them conservatively.
In schoolbooks women with headscarves are portrayed as gentle, while women without headscarves are shown as violent.
This serves to marginalise the women.
The women are intended to be polarized and divided.
It is intended to be prevented that women come together and fight together.
Because the patriarchy knows that women want peace and have the power to bring it, it is afraid of the organization of women.
We as women from the Ankara Women's Platform are concerned with the trials.
We try to create awareness about the trials in society and to follow each trial.
We also try to organize a common struggle.
The women want to go to the streets and defend their rights, but unfortunately they are prevented from doing so by the state due to the ongoing state of emergency.”
Jineolojî began its journey on 8th of March 2016 as an outcome of Kurdish women’s freedom struggle. This year a special issue of the magazine will be published in English.
Jineolojî began its journey on 8th of March 2016 as an outcome of Kurdish women’s freedom struggle.
A special compilation edition will be published in English.
Istanbul police have detained seven people who were distributing leaflets marking 25 November, International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women.
The seven people, of whom six are women, were taken into custody at the Cumhuriyet Square in Esenyurt district.
The detainees taken to Kıraç Police Station are: Ayfer Yılmaz, Muzaffer İpek, Türkan Sünbül, Elvan Uçar, Mürvet Kesen, Zübeyde Ağırbaş, Maynur Yılmaz.
Sydney paid tribute to the Kurdish women revolutionaries murdered in Paris and Silopi.
Sakine Cansız, Fidan Doğan, Leyla Şaylemez, who were murdered in Paris  and Sêvê Demir, Fatma Uyar and Pakize Nayır, who were murdered in Silopi by the Turkish state forces, were commemorated in Sydney, Australia.
DTK co-chair and Hakkari MP, Leyla Güven, joined the memorial via Skype.
"We will be worthy of these brave women by turning their ideal of free Kurdistan, free women and society into reality."
Taştan added that the killings were ordered by Erdoğan as a "continuation of the 15 February conspiracy."
Altun had divorced her husband not long ago. She was pregnant and living with her two children.
25-year-old woman Neşe Altun, pregnant and mother of two, was murdered in the İpekyolu district of Van province.
While the perpetrator(s) fled from the scene after shooting Altun in her apartment, neighborhoods heard gunshots and rushed to her home, to find her lie in a pool of blood.
The woman, shot in the neck, was taken to hospital in a critically wounded state, and she lost her life despite all the medical efforts made to save her at hospital.
Police officers took the statements of her neighborhoods at hospital.
While the woman was then laid to rest in the cemetery of Van.
it grabbed attention that none of her relatives came to hospital for funeral procedures.
It came out that Altun had divorced from her husband.
She was living with her two children.
Memorial for the six Kurdish women revolutionaries murdered by Turkey in Paris and Silopi.
In Toronto, Canada Sara Free Women’s Commune and the Kurdish Democratic Community Centre organised a memorial to pay tribute to women who were murdered in Paris, Silopi and Şırnak.
Speaking at the event held at the Kurdish Democratic Community Centre, Gülnaz Yön on behalf of Sara Free Women’s Commune vowed to reclaim the struggle of the martyrs and follow in their footsteps.
One billion women worldwide have been raped or harassed.
Women refuse to assume passively this violence.
The One Billion Rising campaign called on women to get on their feet and protest on February 14.
One in three women worldwide has been subjected to violence, beaten, forced to have sex, raped or mistreated.
One in three women corresponds to 1 billion women.
The campaign, which launched on Valentine’s Day 2012.
On March 8, women once again stand up for their rights around the world and fill the streets and squares with their colours as part of the International Women's Day. This year's March 8 also indicates that it is women who will determine the colour of the 21st century. The struggle for existence or non-existence of proletarian women has developed into a resistance that will decisively shape the century. This fact makes itself felt in all areas of life.
On March 8, in Shengal, the main settlement area of the Yazidi community in Southern Kurdistan/Northern Iraq, ANF met fighters of the Shengal Women's Units (Yekîneyên Jinên Şengalê, YJŞ).
"It is not only a symbolic day, but one of historical resistance.
struggle cannot be limited to one day alone. A liberation struggle cannot be reduced to one day.
Resistance is a continuous process.
The women, for example, who were captured by the enemies of Kurdistan, are in a constant struggle.
We too are in resistance against our enemies every moment. This will continue so."
"Before the latest ferman, Abdullah Öcalan was not really known to the Yazidis. To celebrate March 8 as an international women's day of struggle was unthinkable.
Today, however, it is women who command this sacred piece of earth.
Their acquaintance with Öcalan and his philosophy has enabled Yazidi woman to organise themselves.”
" Western countries claim to be the most developed but we can observe all forms of violence against women, their humiliation and oppression there.
This situation cannot change as long as women remain apolitical and unorganized.
In the middle of Europe, a Yazidi woman from this region has been murdered recently.
The only way to stop the femicide is for us women, and with that I mean all women in the world, to organise ourselves and stand up for our oppressed fellows.”
Speaking about the International Working Women's Day, 8 March, YJA Star commander Sarya Qamishlo said:
"8 March, means resistance, and has become the day of the women walking towards victory."
YJA Star commander Sarya Qamishlo spoke about the meaning and legacy of 8 March and said that YJA Star guerrillas, are celebrating this 8 March in war positions in a great struggle.
Commander Qamishlo added: "As YJA Star forces, we welcome 8 March in war positions in a great struggle. The meaning of 8 March is the act of being, free, against the mentality of occupation and destruction, the day of struggle and war."
Leader Apo previously said that the 21st century will be the century of women's freedom.
Today, we see that women have come one step closer to this reality with their struggle.
As fighting women, we want to state that we have received a great morale from the struggle of women.
From the mountains of Kurdistan we salute Leader Apo and we celebrate the day of working women of 8 March. We will be liberated with our struggle."
Tens of women were murdered or committed suicide in South Kurdistan in 2019.
According to South Kurdistan Organisation for the Elimination of Violence Against Women, at least 35 women were murdered in the first 9 months of 2019.
57 women committed suicide and 207 others immolated themselves.
A balance sheet for the entire year is not available yet.
The latest news of woman murder came from the capital Hewler city.
According to local media reports of December 28, a woman was killed by her husband with gunfire in the town of Rizgari in Xebat district.
The man was arrested and an investigation launched into the incident.
The month of May was particularly tragic for women.
In 10 days alone, four girls under 16 of age suspiciously took their own lives in Duhok, Hewler, Raperin, Shengal, Diyala and Kirkuk.
In addition, dozens of women subjected to violence applied to shelters.
According to the figures of the General Directorate of Social Affairs in Sulaymaniyah, 191 women with 45 children were accepted to the Women’s Shelter in Sulaymaniyah in the first 11 months of the year.
While 166 of these women had their problems resolved, 25 remain in the shelter.
Kurdish women living in Scandinavian countries have condemned the Turkish attack on the Maxmur refugee camp in South Kurdistan and have called for the lifting of the embargo against the camp.
The Kurdish women's movement in Scandinavia has condemned the killing of three Kurdish women in a drone attack by the Turkish army on the Maxmur refugee camp last Wednesday.
Fehime Turan from the Peace Mothers Initiative in İzmir province has passed away on Friday.
Turan, who lost her life at home, was laid to rest at the Doğançay Cemetery.
The funeral was attended only by few family members due to the curfew and other measures to contain the spread of the coronavirus.
TJK-E strongly condemned the murder of a Kurdish woman from Rojava in the city of Lavrio. The woman was killed in front of her children by her husband.
The Kurdish Women's Movement in Europe (TJK-E) issued a written statement saying:
"Rojava woman Evin Ekrem Ali, 35, was forced to leave her house to flee the attacks and brutal regime established by ISIS. She arrived in Greece with her family. She was murdered by her husband in front of her children."
The murder took place on 29 January, at around 8 pm on the upper floor of the police station building in Lavrio, where refugees are housed.
Evin Ekrem Ali was stabbed by her husband Behzat Ali.
The murder suspect who escaped after the killing was caught after three hours search by Kurdish refugees and the police.
Evin Ekrem Ali had 4 children and arrived in Lavrio two years ago.
The TJK-E statement said: "Today, violence against women represents the reaction of patriarchy which try to put an end to the struggle of women for freedom."
Olania Çendy was murdered in her apartment in Dortmund. The thirty-year-old woman came from Southern Kurdistan.
Olania Çendy came from the Yazidi town of Shengal in Southern Kurdistan and left behind four children. According to media reports, the children aged between two and seven years were in the apartment during the murder. The crime is one of many patriarchal murders that are again and again trivialised as a "family drama" instead of being recorded as a feminicide and thus made tangible as an expression of the patriarchal system.
"While the wound of the thousands of women murdered, sold and enslaved by the ISIS in Shengal is still fresh, the news of the murder of a woman from Shengal here in the middle of Europe has deeply shaken us and increased our anger towards patriarchy.
We  renew our pledge to fight for an end to feminicide."
Women's newspaper Newaya Jin published a special issue for the month of March.
In this issue the newspaper focused on women's struggle from a local to a global perspective.
Newaya Jin is published monthly in Europe. The 180th issue of the paper has been issued in the month of March with the headline 'Women will change the world'. The issue focuses on the local, regional and universal women's struggle.
One of the authors, Hêja Zerya, draws attention to the general crisis of the feminist movement with the strongest anti-system potential and emphasizes the leadership of women in the 21st century.
Zerya Gül, who thinks that Erdogan was given the role of eliminating the freedom of women with the 'Third World War', emphasizes that freedom seekers were driven towards genocide.
Dilan Bozgan prepared a news dossier about the struggle of Chilean women, who brought their case to the world attention with LasTesis dance performance.
Büşra Ali wrote about the current public uprisings in Lebanon.
Drawing attention to the leading role of Lebanese women.
Drawing attention to climate change, one of the main items on the world's agenda, Nigar Yıldırım points out that problems such as increasing racism, violence, war, economic crisis, poverty, forced migration, and refugee crisis are directly related to the climate crisis that is leading the planet to extinction. Yıldırım reminds that many women who listen to the whisper of trees resist deforestation and destruction of living areas all over the world.
During the attacks of the Turkish state against Rojava in October 2019, many European women who responded to the call of the Kongra Star established Women Defend Rojava committees in many parts of Europe.
Helin Dirik, who met with the committees in London, Bern and Athens, shared the opinions of the committees about the establishment purpose and the activities they carry out.
Women's organisations are protesting against the Turkish government's draft law that would allow rapists who marry their underage victims to go unpunished.
Idil Uğurlu stated The country's population have to fight against the pandemic and government policy at the same time.
The new enforcement law in Turkey excludes political prisoners and grants a reduction of sentences for perpetrators of violence against women.
"The draft law formulates it openly: The rapists of minors are married to their victims and are released from prison as husbands of the abuse victims. Cleansing the abuse under the condition of marriage means nothing more than exposing the minors to the abuse again and sentencing them to a life of violence. The rapists are rehabilitated, child abuse is legitimized and child marriage is normalized. We will not allow such a bill."
The organisation speaks of a "serious human rights crisis".
The press conference was attended by HDP deputy Remziye Tosun, co-president of the HDP provincial association, Hülya Alökmen Uyanık and many others.
The building in which the press conference was to take place was sealed off by the police.
"The crisis is more severe than ever"
HDP MP Tosun stressed that human rights in Turkey are in an unprecedented crisis.
Tosun said the denial of the right to life and the violations of rights mainly concern women and children.
305 women murdered in eleven months
in the first eleven months of 2019 alone, according to official figures, at least 305 women were murdered and at least 46 raped.
Another 204 women were abused and 556 were subjected to violence.
Tosun pointed out that the official figures reveal that in reality tens of thousands of women were experiencing violence, while the actual number of murdered women is much higher.
"A human is human with his rights", said Tosun and vowed that: "Our struggle will continue without interruption".
A commemoration was held in the Swedish city of Gävle for the three Kurdish revolutionary women murdered.
Sakine Cansız, Fidan Doğan and Leyla Şaylemez, who were murdered by the Turkish state on 9 January 2013 in Paris, were commemorated in Gävle, Sweden.
Swedish author Anna Jörgensdotter, who made a speech at the event  pointed out that the 3 Kurdish women, including PKK founder Sakine Cansız, were killed by MIT"
"We should not forget that women's struggle against patriarchal order and capitalism we must express our solidarity with the sisters who raise their voices against oppression and fascism."
After the speech, activists watched the documentary 'Sara' aboy the life and struggle of Sakine Cansız.
YJA STAR guerrilla Rojyar Fırat Çektar, said that every woman in the guerrilla found her will and learned to fight all the difficulties, no matter what.
YJA STAR (Free Women's Troops) guerrilla Rojyar Fırat Çektar stated that as a female guerrilla, she fought against all the evils of the system.
Rojyar Firat Cektar said that she decided to join the guerrilla because she was not satisfied with the way she was struggling and was impressed by the resistance of the YPS against the genocide policy imposed by the Turkish state on the people of Kurdistan.
"I said to myself that one should be worthy of these clothes.
Stepping into a new life and wearing guerrilla clothes made me feel in a way hard to describe with words.
I was so excited.
I had longed this for years.
Now I could carry out my work more powerfully."
Çektar remarked that the territory of Kurdistan welcomed every human being and this she understood when she lived in these mountains as a guerrilla.
Çektar stated that guerrilla's "sacrifice, companionship, socialist consciousness and pure solidarity as well as the riveting of the love of the people and the country swept the residues left by the system.
The importance of this cannot be described."
"There is nothing we cannot do as we return to our essence.
In the guerilla, every woman finds her own will and learns to deal with all difficulties and problems, no matter what."
Tevgera Jinên Azad (TJA) activist Leyla Aşkan was detained at the entrance to Tatvan.
Leyla Aşkan, who had set off from Van at night for a conference held by Tevgera Jinên Azad (TJA) in Amed, was detained in Tatvan, in Bitlis.
She has been taken into custody because of a lawsuit filed against her.
Aşkan was taken to Tatvan District Police Department.
"We live in a time when the common struggle of women is no longer a utopia but clearly reflected in reality.
Patriarchy can no longer restrict us to certain areas, we carry the resistance to the streets, to the frontlines and to the barricades".
"Every heart that takes to the streets, every slogan against patriarchy, every banner, every bullet shot is an expression of the common struggle of women; whether at home, on the streets, in the factories, in the prisons, at the frontlines or in the liberated areas.
Today, our comrades express their resistance by dancing in the streets in another form of rebellion, and we, as the women's organizations under the KBDH, emphasise that the song you sing accompanies every bullet that we fire at the enemy. We accompany your dance against patriarchy with our dance for victory.
The KBDH addressed the system of trustees and described the deposition of the co-mayors and their imprisonment as a direct attack on the achievements of the women's movement. Remarking that the invasion of Rojava is an equally direct attack, KBDH said; "Here the country where the women's revolution is taking place is being occupied. Women are taken captive and tortured to death. The gangs assembled from the remains of the ISIS showed who they are with the murder of Hevrîn Xelef recorded on video.
The KBDH emphasized: "We draw our strength from the struggles from Chile to Bolivia, from Iran to Turkey, from Kurdistan to India.
we will continue to confront the patriarchal, capitalist system with our dances, our slogans, our solidarity and our weapons.”
The Free Women's Movement (TJA) is launching a solidarity campaign on social networks for Kurdish women politicians Sebahat Tuncel and Gültan Kışanak, who are facing retrial.
Democratic Regions Party (DBP) former term co-chair Sebahat Tuncel and Amed Metropolitan Municipality (DBB) former co-mayor Gültan Kışanak are going to be retried.
The first hearings for both women politicians will be held monday at Malatya 1st Criminal Court.
TJA called on activists to be ready for a tweetstorm at 10 am (Turkey time) when the hearing will begin. The hastag to be used is #GültanVeSebahataÖzgürlük.
Buldan underlined: It should be known that as long as the determined struggle of women continues, there will be no benefit for the persecutor. We also know that very well; our path is long, our struggle is ambitious and great. In particular, oppression, violence, exploitation and massacres continue on women. As revealed in all the studies and reports published to date, violence against women has never ceased and the oppression has never ended during the AKP rule. Crimes and murders grew and spread. Neither preventive nor protective measures were taken against them."
Buldan also said: "I would like to state that these conflicting 'security' policies should be ended as soon as possible. I would like to mention that the AKP government, who boasted about putting the Solution Process in the refrigerator, should know that it is us women who suffered the most.
Here I would like to express once again that today, the biggest and most real problems of the country are the Kurdish issue and the isolation issue. Mr. Ocalan tried to solve the problem between 2011-2015."
the sister of the victim, Mutlu Kaya, was also shot by her boyfriend. She suffered a severe head injury and was unable to speak or walk for a long time.
Peace Mother Naciye İke, a uterine cancer patient, had been receiving treatment at Van Regional Training and Research Hospital for three months.
The Peace Mother was laid to rest at the Akalın (Bajerge) Cemetery in her hometown, Yüksekova district of Hakkari.
The new issue covers the 21st century feminism, the principles of universal common women's struggle, the Law of Execution in Turkey and the importance of mother tongue.
The 182nd issue of the monthly women's newspaper Newaya Jin includes portraits of women who have a life of struggle, from the Saturday Mothers to the Plaza de Mayo Mothers and the Peace Mothers.
Among the other articles featuring in the new issue are those about 21st century feminism, the principles of universal common women's struggle, the coronavirus emergency, the Law of Execution in Turkey and the importance of mother tongue.
Saturday Mothers have been meeting for 25 years demanding justice and the truth for the disappeared people.
Fehmi Tosun, who was kidnapped and disappeared from his house in 1995.
"That square is our childhood, our youth. It represents what we have won, lost, our suffering, our aspirations."
Another struggle for rights carried out by mothers has been that in Plaza de Mayo in Argentina.
Dilan Bozgan reminded in her article that Argentinian mothers continue to look for their children and demand justice, even during the years of repression.
The May issue also presents the story of the life of 81-year-old Yadê (Samya Doğan), a mother, a people militant.
The Kurdish women’s movement in Russia condemned KDP’s collaboration with the Turkish state and called for unity against the dirty alliance.
The Kurdish women’s movement in Russia issued a written statement concerning the recent tension in Zînî Wertê.
The statement includes the following:
“With its attacks against Kurdish settlements from Afrin to Maxmur, the fascist Turkish state continues to spill Kurdish blood.
The Turkish state, which wants to suppress the Kurdish achievements in the region with blood, seeks to drag the region into a chaos by taking some collaborationist Kurdish forces into its service.
The recent tension in the area of Zînî Wertê is a part of this dirty game.
With its military deployment to Zînî Wertê, the KDP is paving the way for an internal Kurdish conflict.
In this fragile process when Kurds need unity most, the aggressive attitude adopted by the KDP is unacceptable for any Kurd.
with the trust that a possible internal Kurdish conflict would greatly harm the Kurds and their achievements, we call upon the KDP to end its dirty alliance with the Turkish state.
Kurdistan is currently in need of peace and protection of achievements more than war.
We call upon our people to be sensitive in order to frustrate this dirty alliance.”
Kurdpa Agency: A university professor from Bokan has been sentenced to five years in prison by the city's criminal court.
According to a report received by the Kurdistan Press Agency, Branch 6 of the Bokan Criminal Court sentenced Dr. Rashid Kermanj to five years in prison.
This professor is accused of "insulting the leadership and cooperating with one of the Kurdish opposition parties of the Iranian government."
The Kurdish citizen has objected against the verdict and and his case has been referred to the appeals court for review.
he is a graduate of the PhD in Persian Literature from Moscow and has taught at the universities of Mahabad, Saqez, Bokan and Soran University in Kurdistan.
Kurdpa Agency: A Kurdish tradesman from Divandarreh lost his life as a result of government troops firing on the Andimeshk road in Khuzestan.
According to an informed source, government troops targeted this Kurdish tradesman without carrying any smuggled goods.
This Kurdish tradesman has been shot and killed without any warning.
According to an informed source, intelligence forces searched the homes of the two Kurdish citizens and confiscated some of their personal belongings, including their phones.
Sayed Mustafa Sabri was released after several hours of detention, but his son remains in the custody of intelligence forces, the source added.
Sayed Ahmad Sabri was taken to an unknown location after his arrest and his fate is not known, the source said.
No exact information has been released as to the arrests of the two Kurdish citizens.
Kurdpa Agency: Marivan Criminal Court Branch 102 sentenced a Kurdish activist to six months in discretionary imprisonment and twenty lashes.
According to a report by the Kurdistan Press Agency, a Kurdish social activism named "Arman Ghafouri" from Marivan was sentenced to six months in discretionary imprisonment by Branch 102 of the criminal court for "disturbing public order by participating in a protest rally in supporting of Afrin" and twenty lashes.
In recent days, this civil activist's trial has been held in absentia without the presence of him and his lawyer.
This young Kurd was taken to an unknown location after his arrest and his fate is not known.
Plainclothes officials have called the arrest of the young man "a member of one of the Kurdish opposition parties of the Iranian government".
The detainee was arrested without legal authorization. So far, the young Kurdish family's pursuit about his fate has been fruitless.
Kurdpa Agency: A Kurdish Kolbar from Baneh was taken to hospital after being shot by government troops in the border.
Government troops have targeted this Kurdish Kolbar at the border of Baneh without prior notice.
“Yadigar Îsmaîlî” was wounded from his thigh and is currently under medical care at Salahuddin Ayoubi Hospital in Baneh.
He is married and has two children.
The first branch of the Sanandaj Revolutionary Court, headed by Judge Saeedi, has issued a three-year prison sentence for "Parisa Seifi", a Kamyaran cultural activist.
First Branch of the Sanandaj Revolutionary Court has charged thisl cultural activist with "propaganda against the system and membership in one of the Kurdish opposition parties of the Iranian government."
This Kurdish cultural activist appealed against this verdict and her file has been referred to the Sanandaj Court of Appeal for reconsideration.
“Perîsa” was pressured by intelligence forces during her detention and was denied to "family's visit and access to a lawyer" during her detention.
The child's leg was amputated in the incident that took place near the "Farajvani" barracks.
The child is currently under intensive medical care.
Out of this total, 9 citizens lost their lives in a landmine accident in Khuzestan, Golestan, Urmia, Sanandaj and Kermanshah provinces.
In that statistic, 6 people were injured in a landmine explosion under the age of 18.
According to these statistics, most of the injured in the legs and arms have been mutilated.
On Saturday evening,Turkish troops opened fire on a group of Kurdish Kolbars on the Qotur border in Khoy, one Kolbar, Bahram Yousefi, 35, from the village of Beljuk, was killed and another kolbar named Shemsaldin Omarpour was seriously injured.
These two Kolbars were shot by Iranian government forces in the village of Beljuk and entered Turkish territory after being chased by government troops, enter the turkey's territory and Turkish Army forces fired on Bahram Yousefi who died on the spot.
kolbar's body has not yet been returned to his family.
Kurdpa Agency: One tradesman and one Kolbar were killed and injured by direct firing by Iranian government troops at the Sardasht border.
This tradesman has been shot by government troops along with a group of Kurdish tradesmen at the border of Qaleh Rash in Sardasht.
Government troops have targeted this group of tradesmen without any prior warning.
On the other hand, the same day, a Kurdish Kolbar named "Khezr Binawa" from Sardasht was seriously injured after a direct firing by government troops at the city's border.
He was transferred to Sardasht Hospital for medical treatment and his general condition has been reported in serious condition.
Kurdpa Agency: Intelligence forces arrested two Kurdish youths from Ilam and Sanandaj for unknown reasons.
An Elamite youth named Amir Ali Majd was arrested by intelligence agents at his bookstore  according to a report by the Kurdistan Press Agency.
The arrest of the Kurdish young man was carried out any without legal authorization, and intelligence forces beat him during his detention.
a Kurdish youth named Arman Mohammadi from Sanandaj was arrested by the IRGC and transferred to the detention center of Shahramfar for interrogation.
No exact information is available as to the reasons for the arrests of the two Kurdish citizens.
The IRGC's Hamzeh base's public relations office said that Shakiba Salimi, one of the IRGC's commanders, along with Jafar Nezampour and Mohammad Shokri, two other IRGC members, were killed in the clashes.
Hamzeh Sepah's headquarters attributed the clash to the Kurdish opposition parties of the Iranian government, but so far no one has claimed responsibility for the clash.
Kurdpa Agency: Further arrest of Kurdish activists, another social activism in  (Shabad), arrested by intelligence forces.
According to a report by the Kurdistan Press Agency on Sunday, Sohrab Rahimi, a social activism from Shabad, was arrested and transferred to an unknown location.
Intelligence forces raided this activism personal's home and arrested him after searching his house.
Intelligence forces also seized some of the Kurdish activist's personal belongings.
No information is available on the reasons for the arrest of this activism from Eslamabad-e Gharb.
Kurdpa Agency: The identity of two detained citizens was verified in Sanandaj's protesting rallies.
According to a report by the Kurdistan Press Agency, two Kurdish citizens, Rashad Mohammadpour and Dariush Siaril, were detained by security forces during a protest rally in Sanandaj.
According to an informed source, Rashad Mohammadpour, a 35-year-old, son of Zaman, from Tangi Sar village, was arrested by intelligence forces at his workplace in the Naysar neighborhood of Sanandaj.
Intelligence forces have seized and taken away the Kurdish citizen's CCTV footage, the source said.
No information is available on the fate of these two Kurdish detainees at this time.
Precise figures on the detention of protesters have not yet been released in Sanandaj, but eyewitnesses and human rights activists have reported the detention of dozens of protesters.
Kurdpa Agency: A Kurdish Kolbar from Mahabad was transferred to Piranshahr Hospital after being wounded by government troops.
According to a report received by the Kurdistan Press Agency on Tuesday, a group of Kurdish Kolbars were fired by Iranian government forces at the border of Piranshahr, and a Kurdish Kolbar was called "Jalal Khaledi" from Mahabad was seriously injured.
According to eyewitnesses, government troops beat the injured Kolbar and traces of bruises were found on his body.
He was shot in the leg and taken to Piranshahr Hospital for medical treatment.
Kurdpa Agency: Two students of Razi University in Kermanshah have been arrested by intelligence forces and taken to an unknown location.
According to a report by the Kurdistan Press Agency on Sunday, two protesters at Razi University in Kermanshah, "Salah Gharibi", a veterinary student and "Nabi Tardast" a master's degree student in sociology, were arrested in front of the university's door.
These two students were arrested and taken to an unknown location during a rally of students at Razi University in Kermanshah in protest of the downing of the Ukrainian aircraft by the IRGC.
in this regard, on the same day, Siavash Hayati, spokesman for the Yarsan Civil Rights Advisory Council and a member of the United Kurdish Front's leadership council, was arrested by intelligence forces in front of the door of Razi University in Kermanshah.
Kurdpa Agency: A Kurd teacher was fired because of pressures from the Oshnavieh Ettelaat Bureau.
According to a report by the Kurdistan Press Agency, a Kurd teacher, Azad Rasoulnejad, was fired because of opposition from the Oshnavieh Ettelaat Bureau.
This Kurdish teacher,  he has been working in the department earlier this year at the request of the Oshnavieh Department of Education.
Azad Rasoulnejad, who has been in the Oshnavieh Education Department for fourteen years, was arrested on charges "propaganda against the regime and collaborating with one of the Kurdish opposition parties of the Iranian government".
interrogated for 40 days in the Urmia Ettelaat detention center.
This Kurd teacher was then tried on the same charge and sentenced to one year in discretionary prison and dismissed.
This teacher was released after serving a sentence in prison.
Branch 101 of the Criminal Court II. Oshnavieh sentenced Rashid Naserzadeh, a Kurdish environmental activist to six years in discretionary imprisonment.
The court has charged this environmental activist with "gathering and colluding to commit crimes against national security and propaganda in favor of opposition and dissident groups."
The court, citing Articles 500 and 610 of the chapter on punishments and penalties deterrent by the Islamic Penal Code, and Article 134 of the Penal Code, sentenced this environmental activist to five years in prison on charges of "gathering and colluding to commit crimes against national security".
The ruling was issued for the Kurdish activist, citing reports by the Oshnavieh Intelligence Bureau and the Judicial Bureau of the Oshnavieh Public Prosecutor's Office and Revolutionary Court.
This civil activist has been acquitted of "espionage for opposition groups" based on Article 37 of the Constitution and Article 4 of the Criminal Procedure Code.
This sentence was announced on Thursday, March 26th, to Rashid Naserzadeh.
This environmental activist from Oshnavieh was arrested by intelligence forces on Tuesday, was arrested on Piranshahr-Oshnavieh Road.
Rashid Nasarzadeh was released on 200 million Tomans bail,  after 44 days' detention.
Kurdpa Agency: A Kurdish tradesman from the city of Saqez lost his life as a result of direct firing by government troops.
According to a report received by the Kurdistan Press Agency on Tuesday, a Kurdish tradesman named "Naseh Azarpour" from the city of Saheb, was died as a result of direct firing by government troops at the Saif Saqez border.
This Kurdish tradesman has been targeted directly without any warning by government troops.
According to an informed source, government troops have shot the tradesman as he did not carry any contraband.
Government troops seized forty million Tomans after inspecting the tradesman's clothes, the source said. The tradesman's body was buried in the cemetery of Saheb after completing the investigation.
On Thursday,"Tahsin Dadras", a Kurdish political prisoner from the village of Sardoush, was transferred from Marivan to the central prison of Sanandaj.
According to an informed source, this Kurdish political prisoner has rejected the request of the Marivan Intelligence Bureau to cooperate with the agency and the deputy head of the Marivan Intelligence Department had pressured on this political prisoner.
This source added: For several times, Marivan Prison and Intelligence officials have opposed to leave of absence the political prisoner.
This political prisoner was transferred to Marivan Prison for a term of imprisonment in 1397 and was deprived of his leave during his imprisonment.
On Thursday, Tahsin Dadras was arrested by the intelligence agents on charges of "cooperating with one of the Kurdish opposition parties" and transferred to the Sanandaj Intelligence Bureau after a week of detention.
This Kurdish citizen was sentenced to eleven years imprisonment in the district court on a charge of "acting against national security and cooperating with the Kurdish opposition parties" and then changed to a six-year sentence in the appeals court in Sanandaj.
This Kurdish political prisoner was denied "access to a lawyer" during his detention.
Kurdpa Agency: Two Kurdish citizens were killed and wounded in an unexploded ordnance strike in the town of Azgaleh.
A few days ago, a Kurdish citizen, Ali Malaki, 22, was killed due to unexploded ordnance and another citizen named Arman Malaki, 19, was seriously injured. according to a report by the Kurdistan Press Agency.
In this incident, Arman Malaki was injured in knee and right elbow and was taken to medical center for medical treatment.
Experts have identified the cause of the explosion as a cutting of Iron plates.
there has been more than 16 million unexploded mines and ordnance after the end of war in Urmia, Sanandaj, Kermanshah, Ilam and Khuzestan.
Kurdpa Agency: A Kurdish tradesman from Mahabad and a Kurdish Kolbar from Salmas were died due to shootings by government troops at the borders of Oshnavieh and Piranshahr.
According to a report by the Kurdistan Press Agency, On Sunday, Iranian government forces fired on a number of Kurdish traders, following the shooting of a Kurdish businessman named Smko (Ismail) Qadernia, from Mahabad was died.
This Kurdish tradesman was shot by government troops at the Oshnavieh border.
in this connection, at the same day, a Kurdish Kolbar named Naser Moradpour, son of Abdullah, from Kozehrash village in Salmas, died after government troops fired at him at the Piranshahr border.
Kurdpa Agency: A Kurdish journalist and environmental activist from Sarpol-e Zahab was arrested by intelligence forces.
According to a report released by the Kurdistan Press Agency on Friday,  Fereshteh Cheraghi, a journalist and environmental activist from Sarpol-e Zahab, was arrested by intelligence forces.
Intelligence forces raided this environmentalist's personal home. arrested him without legal authorization.
This Kurdish journalist has been transferred to the IRGC Detention Center in Karmanshah after her arrest.
Fereshteh Cheraghi is a graduate of accounting.
Kurdpa Agency: A labor activist from Sanandaj was arrested by intelligence forces.
According to a report received by the Kurdistan Press Agency on Tuesday, " Jalil Mohammadi", labor activist and a member of the "Coordination Committee to Help Workers' Organizations" was detained.
This worker was arrested  at his workplace.
No information is available on the reasons for the arrest of this worker.
Kurdpa Agency: Two Kurdish Kolbars were seriously injured as a result of direct firing by government troops and were transferred to the city of Van, Turkey and Chaldoran medical centers.
According to a report by the Kurdistan Press Agency on Thursday,  a Kurdish Kolbar named Majid Mazloumi, a 25-year-old from the village of Chokhur Kand, Chaldoran, was wounded by government troops shootings.
Government troops have targeted a group of Kurdish Kolbars, resulting in a severe wounding at the Chaldaran border highlands
This Kolbar was badly injured in the abdomen and was transported to the Van, Turkey Medical Center for medical treatment.
Similarly, in recent days, a group of Kurdish Kolbars have been ambushed by Iranian government troops near the village of Madloo in the Chaldoran, and a Kurdish Kolbar named "Mohammad Maraz" was seriously wounded. .
He was badly injured in the thigh and back and was taken to Chaldoran Medical Center for medical treatment.
On Monday, a Kurdish citizen, Keyvan Azami, 37, from the village of Kohlineh, died in Sarpol Zahab due to the severity of the mortar blast caused by the eight-year war between Iran and Iraq.
In this incident, which took place on Sunday, this Kurdish citizen was seriously injured and due to severe injury died in hospital.
More than three decades after the end of the eight-year war between Iran and Iraq, mine-affected areas and war munitions continue to be victimized in Kurdistan, and the Iranian government has so far failed to provide funding to clear mine-affected areas and war munitions in Kurdistan.
On Tuesday,intelligence forces detained a Kurdish youth whom following the Yarsan Religion "Saber Mohammadi" transferred him to an unknown location.
This Kurdish youth has been arrested by the intelligence agents without any legal authorization.
According to an informed source, the pursuit of the young man's family to find out about his fate was fruitless.
No information is available on the arrest of the young man following the Yarsan ritual.
On Friday, a Kurdish citizen, Abdullah Sadeghi, was arrested by intelligence forces and taken to an unknown location.
This Kurdish young man was arrested without legal authorization and intelligence officials accused him about "propaganda against boycotting the elections".
So far, the citizen's family has been unsuccessful in finding out about his fate.
Kurdpa Agency: Five Kurdish citizens from Javanrud were arrested by intelligence forces on charges of "participating in protest rallies".
According to a report by the Kurdistan Press Agency, five Kurdish citizens, Aria Azizi, Diako Mirahmadi, Omran Waldi, Hirsch Mirahmadi and Zakaria Ahmadi, were arrested by intelligence forces.
These five Kurdish citizens were arrested five days ago on charges of "participating in protest rallies" and were transferred to Dizelabad prison in Kermanshah.
So far, the family follow-up for these five Kurdish citizens to find out about their fate have not yielded any results.
Following the rise in fuel prices, widespread protest rallies were held in Javanrud and dozens of protesters were arrested by government officials.
also in these rallies, Dozens of protesters were wounded and several other civilians were killed by direct firing by Iranian government troops.
Kurdpa Agency: A member of the Revolutionary Guards in Baneh was injured by unidentified people.
According to a report received by the Kurdistan Press Agency on Sunday evening, unidentified men shot a member of IRGC, "Karim Mahmoudi", son of Sharif, from Baneh.
According to an informed source, this member of the Revolutionary Guards was seriously injured and taken to Baneh Hospital.
The identity of the individuals who targeted the Revolutionary Guard's member is not available until now.
Following the arrest of Kurdish citizens in Piranshahr on Tuesday, five citizens, Ali Ghaderi, son of Rasoul, Mohammad Qaderi, son of Aziz, Hesam Aldin Pirani, son of Zahir, Amir Ghaderi, son of Khadar and Salam Kheri Aghlan, were arrested by security forces.
Also on Monday, another citizen named "Vahed Qaderi", the son of Rasoul, was arrested by security forces.
These six citizens were taken to an unknown location after their arrest, and their fates are unknown.
So far, the exact reason for the arrest of these six citizens are unclear.
In this regard, on Monday, two Kurdish citizens named "Ahad Mahmoud Hassan" and "Abu Bakr Mahmoud Hassan" from Piranshahr were arrested by security forces.
On Monday, a Kurdish kolbar named Borhan Jankanlu, 28, resident of Bazargan, Maku, was killed in a direct firings by government troops and two other Kolbars were wounded.
Government troops opened fire on this group of Kurdish Kolbars without any warning.
The injured Kolbars were taken to Maku Medical Center for medical treatment.
Borhan Jankanlu is married and has two children.
Today, Saturday, May 16, a week has passed since the disappearance of Hedayat Hedayat Abdullahpour, a Kurdish political prisoner sentenced to death in Urmia Prison.
So far, the political prisoner's family's efforts to find out his fate and whereabouts have been unsuccessful.
On Tuesday,  Amnesty International issued a statement urging Iranian government officials to immediately determine the fate and whereabouts of Hossein Silavi, Ali Khosarji and Naser Khafajian (Khafaji), three prisoners on death row from the Ahwazi Arab minority, and Hedayat Abdullahpour, a prisoner from the Kurdish minority on the death row.
On Saturday,  Hedayat Abdullahpour was taken out of the ward under the pretext of a phone card and then transferred to an unknown location.
Hedayat Abdullahpour was transferred to Urmia Central Prison after the interrogation.
this Kurdish political prisoner sentenced to death in the First Branch of the Revolutionary Court of Urmia on charges of " rebellion and membership in one of the Kurdish opposition parties in the Iranian government."
This verdict was violated in Branch 47 of the Supreme Court and his case was referred to the Second Branch of the Urmia Revolutionary Court for retrial.
Kurdpa Agency: Three Kurdish citizens from Javanrud were arrested during a recent protest rally in Kermanshah.
According to a report received by the Kurdistan Press Agency, three Kurdish citizens, named " Shoresh, Heresh and Kurosh Mohammadi" from Javanrud, a resident of the Dolatabad neighborhood in Kermanshah, were detained during recent protest rallies.
These three citizens, who are brothers, were transferred to an unknown location after their arrest and their fate are unknown.
So far, the relatives and acquaintances of these three brothers have been unsuccessful in finding out their status.
In this related matter, on Saturday, a Kurdish civil activist named "Akbar Gaweli" from Sanandaj was arrested by intelligence agents and transported to an unknown location.
The civil activist had been summoned to the Sanandaj judiciary to handle his case.
No information is available on the arrest of this Kurdish activist at this time.
This activist was also arrested on Monday,  while returning from Tehran to Sanandaj in the Feizabad neighborhood was arrested and transferred to the Sanandaj Ettelaat detention center.
Kurdpa Agency: A young Kurd from Salmas was arrested by intelligence forces.
A Kurdish youth named Sohrab Janfza from Salmas was detained and taken to an unknown location on Wednesday, January 1st, according to a report by the Kurdistan Press Agency.
According to an informed source, intelligence agents arrested this young man without any legal authorization.
The source added: "So far, the family's pursuit of this young Kurdish man has failed to find out about his fate.
The source stated that this young man had previously been a member of one of the Kurdish opposition parties of the Iranian government.
No information is available on the whereabouts and whereabouts of this young Kurd man.
Kurdpa Agency: A young Kurd from the city of Kamyaran arrested during a protest in Sanandaj and died from torture.
According to a report by the Kurdistan Press Agency, "Kaveh Visani", son of Fathollah from Khamsan village, Kamyaran, was died under the torture.
Kaveh Visani was arrested during a protest rally in Sanandaj and his body was discovered around , a relative of the Kaveh Visani told Kurdpa.
The effects of torture and bruising on his body of Kaveh Visani are clear, the source said.
The Visani family blames the Sanandaj Ettelaat Bureau for the murder of their child, the source said.
The Wisani family refused to provide information on their child's detention because of threats from intelligence forces, the source said.
On Sunday, a group of Kurdish Kolbars at the Nowsud's border in Paveh were targeted by direct firings of Iranian government troops.
Following these firings, a Kurdish Kolbar named Ahmad Sahrai, 24, son of Momen from the village of Dashe was died.
and several other Kolbars, Azim Aminzadeh, from the village of Narvi, Jabar Mohammadi, Zahid Nouri, Jalal Nouri, Shahed Adak, Rasoul Houshi, Shadman Saidi and Taha Salmani, from Kalash village, Javanrud were injured.
This group of Kurdish Kolbars have been shot by government troops without any warning.
First, the wounded Kolbars were taken to Nowsud Clinic for medical treatment and then transferred to Paveh Hospital.
On Tuesday, a Kurdish Kolbar named Kamran Molania, 32, son of Ismail, from the village of Guolan, was shot dead by Iranian government forces at the Sardasht's border.
Iranian government forces fired directly at this Kolbar and a group of Kolbars without any prior warning.
Kamran Molania is married and has one child.
in this regard, a group of Kurdish Kolbars were shot by Iranian government forces at the border of "Bolsur Sofla" in Khoy.
One Kolbar "Loghman Chahargoosheh" was killed and two others named "Mansour Chahargoosheh and Meysam Mohammadi" were severely injured.
Kurdpa Agency: A Kurdish writer and civil activist was arrested in Kelardasht Mazandaran.
on Monday, "Kurdish writer and civil activist Mozhgan Kavoosi" from Kelardasht, Mazandaran, was arrested by intelligence forces and no information is available about her fate.
According to an informed source, intelligence forces raided this Kurdish author's personal home and arrested her without legal authorization.
The source added: This author was arrested by intelligence forces on charges of "supporting protest rallies in Kurdish cities" on social media.
So far, the Kavoosi family has been unsuccessful in finding out about the fate of Mozhgan, the source said.
Mozhgan Kavoosi is a social activisms in Kelardasht based in the cultural and artistic fields and she is the producer, author, and director of the short film Hiva, a documentary about the danger of the Kurdish language being destroyed in Kelardasht.
short film thriller "Hiva"
A documentary about the danger of the extinct of Kurdish language in Kelardasht.
Producer, writer and director: "Mozhgan Kavoosi"
Heidar Ghorbani, a Kurdish political prisoner from Kamyaran, his 120 years in discretionary imprisonment decree changed to death sentence in the Sanandaj judiciary. other political prisoner Mahmoud Sadeghi his sentence was charged from 30 years to 25 years.
The sentences were officially announced on Tuesday, to these two Kurdish political prisoners in the central prison of Sanandaj.
Earlier, the Sanandaj Revolutionary Court sentenced Heidar Ghorbani to 120 years in discretionary prison for "collaborating with one of the Kurdish opposition parties" and Mahmoud Sadeghi was also sentenced to 30 years in prison.
Kurdpa Agency: The body of a Kurdish citizen from Shaho, Ravansar, was handed over to his family who had disappeared during protests.
According to a report received by the Kurdistan Press Agency on Wednesday,  the body of a Kurdish citizen, "Sardar Azami", 41, Majid's son, was found in one of Tehran's morgue.
According to an informed source, this Kurdish citizen disappeared during the protests in the city of Parand, Tehran, and his family was informed on Wednesday,  that his body was in the morgue.
During this time, the Kurdish citizen's family frequently visited Tehran's prisons and intelligence institutions, but did not receive a clear answer about his fate, the source said.
The intelligence source has threatened Azami's family to refuse media coverage of their child's death.
Sardar Azami is married and has two children and has been working in the plating workshop in the city of Parand.
On Wednesday, a young Kurdish man named Shahab Aji, 23, son of Hussein from the village of Gargol in Naqadeh, was arrested after being summoned to the Urmia Intelligence Bureau.
This young Kurd was taken to a detention center for questioning, and his exact fate is unknown.
This young man has been constantly summoned to security agencies recently.
Until the moment, no information is available on the reason for the arrest of this Kurdish citizen.
Kurdpa Agency: A social activist was arrested in Kermanshah and transferred to an unknown location.
According to a report by the Kurdistan Press Agency on Tuesday, a social activist Babak Dabirian was arrested by intelligence forces and taken to an unknown location.
Intelligence forces arrested this social activism on one of the streets of Kermanshah and then raided his private home and searched his home and confiscated his personal stuff.
As of the moment of this news release, the reasons for the arrest of this social activist is not available.
Kurdpa Agency: Intelligence forces continue to arrest Kurdish citizens in Kurdistan's cities.
According to a report released by the Kurdistan Press Agency, during the public protests in the city of Saqez, two protesters, "Shirko Karimi", the son of Mohammad and "Faryad Shahmohammadi", were arrested and taken to an unknown location.
So far, the family's follow-up of these two citizens have not yielded any information about their fate.
Also, a protester citizen, Saeed Qaderi, from Baneh, was arrested during Javanrud's protest rallies and his whereabouts and fate are not known.
These two were arrested by intelligence forces four days ago.
On the other hand, three youths from the village of Ney, Marivan were identified as Fardin Badakhsh, 23, son of Latif, and Sina Jast, 22, son of Salar and Hadi Rasti, 22, son of Fareq who were detained by intelligence forces and detained and transferred to an unknown location.
No exact information is available on the exact time of the arrest and the reason for the arrest of these three young Kurdish guys.
Sina Jast was arrested on Monday, this year on charges of "collaborating with one of the Kurdish opposition parties of the Iranian government" and was released on bail on Thursday.
Kurdpa Agency: A young Kurd from Baneh was arrested by intelligence forces and taken to an unknown location.
According to a report by the Kurdistan Press Agency, few days ago, a young Kurdish man named Hiwa Shaabani from Baneh was arrested without providing any legal authorization by intelligence agents.
This young Kurd was taken to an unknown location after his arrest, and his fate is not known.
According to an informed source, so far the young man's family has been unsuccessful in finding out about his condition.
No exact information is available on the reasons for arresting of the young man until setting up this news.
This morning, Wednesday, April 22nd, the death sentence of a prisoner accused of "premeditated murder" named "Loghman Ahmadpour" from Baneh was carried out in Sanandaj Central Prison.
This prisoner was arrested three years ago on charges of "premeditated murder" in Baneh and later sentenced to Qisas.
Loghman Ahmadpour is 30 years old, married and has two children.
In this regard, on Tuesday, Shayan Saeedpour, a prisoner sentenced to death, was executed in Saqez Prison.
Shayan Saeedpour, while under the age of 18, in a clash with a citizen killed a person named Suleman Azadi.
He was sentenced to death by the First Branch of the Criminal Court of Sanandaj under the chairmanship of Judge Vafaeian, and the verdict was upheld by the Supreme Court in February.
The Javanrud Revolutionary Court has sentenced Abdullah Ahmadi, 28, son of Fayzullah, from the city of Salas Babajani.
The Javanrud Revolutionary Court has charged the Kurdish youth with "collaborating with one of the Kurdish opposition parties of the Iranian government."
The young man was arrested this year in Salas Babajani on charges of "cooperating with one of the Kurdish opposition parties of the Iranian government".
This Kurdish young man is currently being held at Dizelabad Prison in Kermanshah.
On Tuesday, a Kurdish citizen named "Idris Galedari" from Sanandaj was arrested by security forces and taken to an unknown location.
According to an informed source, six days after the arrest of the Kurdish citizen, his fate is unknown.
The informed source said: "This citizen of Sanandaj, while he had referred to one of the relevant companies for his personal car insurance, has been arrested by the security forces."
The informed source added: "After the arrest of this citizen, the security forces raided his private house and confiscated some of his personal belongings, including his computer."
The source said: " two brothers of Idris Galedari are members of one of the Kurdish opposition parties of the Iranian government."
No information is available on the reason for the arrest and detention of this citizen from Sanandaj, as of this writing.
On Wednesday, a Kurdish civil activist named "Fardin Moradi" from Sanandaj was arrested by intelligence forces and taken to an unknown location.
Intelligence forces raided the civil activist's home and arrested him after searching his house.
This activism was also arrested by the Intelligence forces and sentenced to two years discretionary imprisonment and banished to Maragheh Prison on charges of "cooperating with one of the Kurdish opposition parties of the Iranian government".
The verdict was upgraded to 3 years in prison following a review of the appeals court and released from prison after the end of his sentence.
According to the statistics recorded in "Mine and Life", 37 citizens were killed and injured in a landmine explosion in Iran and Kurdistan.
Out of this total, 9 citizens lost their lives in a landmine accident in Khuzestan, Golestan, Urmia, Sanandaj and Kermanshah provinces.
In that statistic, 6 people were injured in a landmine explosion under the age of 18.
According to these statistics, most of the injured in the legs and arms have been mutilated.
Of the 42 landmine and munitions explosions in Iran and Kurdistan, 3 have resulted in the loss of livestock.
"Mine and Life" works to raise awareness about the dangers of landmines in mine-affected provinces and publishes reports and news about landmine explosions and ammunition.
Kurdpa Agency: A Kurdish citizen residing in Urmia was sentenced to five years in discretionary imprisonment by the second branch of the revolutionary court of the city.
According to a report by the Kurdistan Press Agency, a Kurdish citizen, Mohammad Sharif Salem Deziji, son of Arshad, from Dezij, Mergavar District, resident of Urmia, has been sentenced to five years in discretionary prison by the second branch of the revolutionary court presided over by Judge Ali Sheikhlo.
The Urmia Revolutionary Court has sentenced this citizen to five years in discretionary prison on charges of "membership in one of the Kurdish opposition parties of the Iranian government" based on citing Article 499 of the Islamic Penal Code.
This Kurdish citizen was arrested by intelligence forces and transferred to the Urmia Central Prison after four days of interrogation at the Urmia Ettelaat detention center.
Kurdpa Agency: Two Kurdish Kolbars were seriously injured in separate incidents at the borders of Baneh and Hawraman.
A few days ago, a Kurdish young man named "Pouya Parvaneh", a 18-year-old, son of Abdullah, was detained by the Revolutionary Guards near the border of Oshnavieh.
This Kurdish young man has been taken to a security detention center in Urmia for questioning.
Despite the pursuit of the Kurdish young man's family, his release has not to be agreed on bail.
No information is available on the reasons for arresting ofthe 18-year-old man until now.
A 14-year-old teenager, "Payam Rostami", died on Saturday, from a landmine explosion in Qasr-e Shirin.
Kurdpa Agency: A Kurdish cultural activist has been interrogated by security forces at the Shahramfar Detention by IRGC in Sanandaj for 58 days.
According to a report by the Kurdistan Press Agency, IRGC intelligence in Sanandaj has suspended the release of "Parisa Seifi", a Kamyaran cultural activist on bail.
According to an informed source, the cultural activist was under the pressure from intelligence forces during her detention for forced confessions.
The family has only met with her once since her arrest.
Intelligence sources said the cultural activist had accused the cultural activist of "cooperating with one of the Kurdish opposition parties of the Iranian government" and has extended her detention three times so far.
Parisa Seifi, an art and graphic student, was arrested by intelligence forces on Tuesday, at her residence in Sanandaj.
Kurdpa Agency: Three other citizens from Javanrood were arrested by intelligence forces and taken to an unknown location.
According to a report by the Kurdistan Press Agency, "Hadi Mahmoodi, Ayoub Osmani and Sattar Weissi" from Javanrud were detained and transferred to an unknown location during a recent protest rallies.
So far, the family's pursuits of these three Kurdish citizens to find out their fate have failed.
Dozens of Kurdish citizens were detained by intelligence agents as the protests began in Javanrud and transferred to an unknown location.
The intelligence agents refuse to give any clear answer to the detained protesters.
Kurdpa Agency: Two Kurdish Kolbars were wounded by government troops fired at the borders of Sardasht and Piranshahr and transferred to medical centers.
According to a report received by the Kurdistan Press Agency on Tuesday,  a group of Kurdish Kolbars were ambushed by the Revolutionary Guards at the border Sardasht, and as a result, a Kurdish Kolbar, Hassan Salehpour, was seriously wounded.
He was shot in the leg and transported to Sardasht Medical Center for medical treatment.
In this regard, in recent days, a Kurdish Kolbar named "Taha Rashidzadeh" from Piranshahr was injured as a result of direct firing by government troops at the border of this city.
He was taken to a hospital in Urmia due to the severity of the injuries.
This morning, Saturday, the death sentence of Mustafa Salimi, a prisoner sentenced to death, was carried out in Saqez Prison.
The prisoner was transferred to solitary confinement in the past few days to serve his sentence.
he escaped from the Saqez prison after the riots.
According to Kurdish journalists and human rights activists, he was arrested in the Kurdistan Region after escaping from a prison and then handed over to the Iranian government.
Mustafa Salimi, was sentenced to 15 years in prison and death sentence by the Saqez Revolutionary Court, presided over by Judge Goodini, on charges of "membership in Kurdish parties, armed robbery, and moharebeh."
The prisoner's sentence was upheld by Branch 31 of the Supreme Court, and the prisoner went on a hunger strike several times during his imprisonment to protest the unfairness of his sentence.
This morning, Tuesday, Shayan Saeedpour, a prisoner sentenced to death, was executed in Saqez Prison.
Yesterday, Saeedpour's family was called to the prison for the last visit, and the efforts of the citizens and trustees of Saqez to obtain the consent of the avengers of blood to prevent the execution of this prisoner sentenced to retaliation were fruitless.
Shayan Saeedpour escaped from Saqez Prison following an uprising in Saqez Prison.
The prisoner sentenced to death was later arrested by intelligence and transferred to Sanandaj Prison.
Shayan Saeedpour, while under the age of 18, in a clash with a citizen killed a person named Suleman Azadi.
He was sentenced to death by the First Branch of the Criminal Court of Sanandaj under the chairmanship of Judge Vafaeian, and the verdict was upheld by the Supreme Court.
On Saturday, a Kurdish Kolbar , "Osman Fotouhi", 55, from the village of Mishiau, who lives in the "Taze Abad" neighborhood of Saqez, was died due to cold weather.
The other two Kolbars who were known as "Amir Karimzadeh" from the village of "Dirziarat" and "Amir Tarjan" along with Osman Fotouhi, but their exact status are not clear.
Osman Fotouh has five children who had moved to Kurdistan's border areas due to financial need.
On Friday a group of Kolbars who were trapped in the snow and blizzard on the border of the "Se Kochka" in Saqqez were rescued with the help of local residents.
Kurdpa Agency: Two Kurdish Kolbars from Khoy were wounded as a result of gun fires by border's troops in Qutur.
According to a report by the Kurdistan Press Agency, on Saturday, January 4th, two Kurdish Kolbars named "Ali Yousefi, 25, son of Mohammad and Behnam Alizadeh, 20, son of Hussein" from Baljuk village in Qutur district of Khoy were injured as result of the firing of the government troops.
According to an informed source, these two Kurdish Kolbars, along with a group of Kolbars, were shot by government troops at the height of the village of Baljuk.
Government troops have been targeting these two Kolbars at close range at the border with Turkey without prior warning, the source said.
These two Kolbars were taken to Khoy medical centers for medical treatment.
On the morning of Monday, a prisoner accused of "murder" named Keyvanullah Moradi, 28, resident of the village of Belbanabad in Dehgolan, was executed in Sanandaj Central Prison.
This prisoner committed the murder of a citizen from Qorveh named Emad Khaledian five years ago in a clash.
He was sentenced to retaliation by the Sanandaj Criminal Court on charges of "premeditated murder" after being detained by security forces.
This prisoner was transferred to Sanandaj Prison from Qorveh Prison some time ago.
Keyvanullah Moradi is married and has one child.
On the evening of Friday, a group of Kurdish Kolbars were shot by Iranian government forces on the border of "Bolsur Sofla" in Khoy. One Kolbar "Loghman Chahargoosheh" was killed and two others named "Mansour Chahargoosheh and Meysam Mohammadi" were severely injured.
In this regard, on Friday, May 8th, a Kurdish Kolbar named "Keyvan Kowsari" from Baneh died as a result of falling from a cliff.
Kurdpa Agency: Intelligence forces affiliated with the Revolutionary Guards Intelligence agents arrested a Kurdish youth and transferred him to an unknown location.
A few days ago, a Kurdish youth named "Mohammed Sheikhanlou" from Khoy, was arrested by the IRGC.
According to an informed source, intelligence agents detained this young Kurdish man without any legal authorization and transferred him to an unknown location.
Intelligence forces beat him severely during his arrest, the source said. The intelligence forces refuse to give a clear answer to the situation of this Kurdish young man to his family.
No information is available on the arrest and fate of this young Kurd man.
On Saturday, a Kurdish citizen named Jamil Khadem, 42, was detained by intelligence forces at the Sarv intersection in Urmia and taken to an unknown location.
Intelligence forces said the reason for the citizen's arrest was "cooperation with one of the Kurdish opposition parties of the Iranian government."
Until the moment of publication of this news, the citizen's family's efforts to find out whereabouts and his fate has been unsuccessful.
Kurdpa Agency: A Kurdish tradesman was killed and another one was injured after a direct firings by government troops in Marivan.
According to a report by the Kurdistan Press Agency, a Kurdish trader named Mehdi Yousefi from Mirge Drej village, Marivan, was killed as a result of a direct firing by government troops and another trader named Yaqoub Rezaie was injured.
Government troops fired on these two men near the village of Savoji, Marivan without prior notice.
According to an informed source, Mehdi Yousefi was killed after government troops fired on him and Yaqoub Rezaie was taken to medical centers in Marivan for medical treatment.
it is said that the Government troops have targeted these two Kurdish tradesmen while they didn't have any smuggled goods.
Kurdpa Agency: Forensic Medicine Agency in Kermanshah has received seventy million Tomans from a family in a recent protests.
According to a report by the Kurdistan Press Agency, Mohsen Karminia's family paid seventy million Tomans to Forensic Medicine Agency in Kermanshah for delivering their child's corpse.
Mohsen Karminia was shot dead on Sunday, in Jafarabad neighborhood of Kermanshah by government officials.
Kurdpa's sources in Kermanshah have confirmed the identities of three dead people in the recent protests, "Mozafar Vatan Dost, Younes Jalili and Saeed Rezaie."
Also a citizen of Yarsan religion, Pouria Naseri Khah, was killed in a recent protest rally in Tehran as a result of direct firing by government officials.
On Tuesday, intelligence forces arrested a Kurdish young man, Sirvan Mohammadi, from Urmia, and transferred him to an unknown location.
The arrest of this young Kurdish man was carried out without legal authorization, and his exact fate is not known.
According to an informed source, this young Kurd was arrested on charges of "membership in one of the Kurdish opposition parties of the Iranian government."
So far, the young Kurdish family's pursuit of his fate has been useless.
In recent days, a young Kurdish man named Alan Bangin, 21, from the village of Kani Rash in Oshnavieh, was arrested by intelligence forces during his military service and taken to an unknown location.
Following the arrest of this young man, another young man from the village of Kani Rash, Yahya Ebrahimi, 21, was arrested by intelligence forces forces and taken to an unknown location.
intelligence forces raided his family's home in the village of Kani Rash, and after searching his home, some of his personal belongings, including his computer, were confiscated and taken away.
No information is available on the reason for the arrest or whereabouts of the two Kurdish youths.
Mahabad Revolutionary Court sentenced a young Kurd man named Behnam Eliasy, son of Fatah to two years in prison.
The Mahabad Revolutionary Court has accused this young man of "supporting one of the Kurdish opposition parties in cyberspace".
This young Kurd was arrested on Friday, after being beaten by security forces without a legal permit.
This young man was denied access to a lawyer during his detention.
British director Ken Loach sends message to Kobane Film Festival
Ebdullah says Turkey has left one million people without water
HRE: 10 Turkish-backed mercenaries killed, 14 others wounded
HRE: 8 invaders killed, 2 vehicles destroyed
Renewed arson in Kobanê
TEV-DEM condemns the regime's attempts to change demography
Occupation forces attack villages in Afrin
Families and lawyers apply to visit Imralı
HDP commemorates victims of Dersim genocide
Activists in Stockholm protest surge in violence against women
Women in Frankfurt protest male violence
YJA Star guerrillas: 2020 will be the year of freedom
KJK: 15 February is the biggest conspiracy against women
Amazigh music loses its champion
Kurdish intellectuals and artists call for national unity
'Ji bo Azadiyê' will be screened at Geneva Film Festival
Kurdish PEN Congress held in Oldenburg
Kurdish artists promote concert for National Unity in Stockholm
Peace in Kurdistan tells Turkey: End the repression on Grup Yorum
Tev-Çand and Kevana Zerin-Europe pay tribute to Helin Bölek
Two documentary films about Kurdish women screened in Toulouse
Kurdish festival in Toronto
Turkish invaders attacks village of Xirbitbeqir in Girê Spî
TEV-DEM condemns Turkish attack against Maxmur
Turkish state makes new military shipments to South Kurdistan
Turkish army shells Bradost region in South Kurdistan
ISIS members attack Iraqi soldiers in Maxmur region
Activists in Duisburg protest violence against women
March 8 message from female fighters on Til Temir front
KON-MED called on people to join First Yazidi Culture Festival
Yellow Envelope, a book by former IHD chair Akin Birdal
Kurdish Culture Week to be held in Brussels
Kurdish Culture Days to kick off in Nuremberg on Wednesday
Nuremberg Kurdish Culture Days continue with success
British singer Joss Stone performs a concert in Rojava
Kurdish Language Workshop:Today our language, tomorrow our nation
Kurdish Culture Week kicked off in Basel
Scandinavian Kurdish Culture Festival in Stockholm
Fight against pandemic in the besieged Shehba region
'The YPG and YPJ will liberate Serêkaniyê'
Turkey admits the transport of masses to occupied Girê Spî
Bombardment injures two civilians in Til Rifat
Village in Shehba under quarantine over corona suspicion
Explosion during Russian-Turkish joint patrol in Idlib
Car bomb explodes in Serêkaniyê
Another civilian kidnapped in occupied Afrin
Turkish bombardment kills two Syrian soldiers in Gire Spi
Turkish-backed militias set to withdraw from M5
Six jihadists killed in HRE operations in Afrin
Turkish forces set fire to agricultural lands in Ain Issa region
HRE: Two jihadists killed, three others wounded in Sherawa
Autonomous administration condemns Turkish attack on Kobanê
Anti Terrorist Forces capture ISIS Financial Officer in Raqqa
Mazloum Abdi: Health personnel are our commanders
51 bodies recovered from a mass grave in Raqqa
Hediye Yusif: We have mobilized all our means
Turkish attack injures four civilians in Zirgan
Attack by occupation forces injures a civilian in Shehba
Revenge Units issue balance sheet for April: 30 actions claimed
Kurdish politician Alınak released from prison
Authorities try to prevent participation at Gökçek's funeral
IGFM calls for the release of HDP politician Gülser Yildirim
Human rights defenders in Germany talk about Maxmur
NASA on Hasankeyf: There will be a cost
Dismissal of mayors poses health of citizens at risk
Hasankeyf can still be saved from destruction
Police raid houses, detain 14 people in Van
Remains of HPG guerrilla sent to family by cargo
YJA Star hit Turkish soldiers in Heftanin
HPG: Two MIT and three counter-guerrilla members killed in Amed
Two soldiers killed as guerillas hit a covert military unit in Am
5 people jailed in Van for protesting the attack on Zini Werte
HPG announces the names of Zînê Wertê martyrs
KJK warns against new Turkish occupation plans
HPG: Four Turkish soldiers killed in Dersim
Negligence makes number of coronavirus cases increase in Van
Pandemic aid goes only to AKP supporters
HDP calls on women to take to the streets on 25 November
Women murdered in Paris and Silopi commemorated in Sydney
Mother of two murdered in Van
Murdered Kurdish women remembered in Toronto
Women will stand up against violence on 14 February
YJŞ fighters: Self-organization is the key against femicide
Qamishlo: 8 March is the day of women walking towards victory
Dozens of women murdered or committed suicide in South Kurdistan
Kurdish women in Scandinavia condemn the attack on Maxmur
Peace Mother Turan passes away in İzmir
TJK-E condemns murder of Kurdish woman in Lavrio
Newaya Jin: Women will change the world!
HDP Women's Council: 305 women killed in Turkey in eleven months
KBDH salutes the "Las Tesis" movement
Turkish soldier murders girlfriend in Amed
Peace Mother from Yüksekova passes away
Kurdish women’s movement in Russia calls for national unity